MILWAUKEE (AP) — Joe Musgrove held Milwaukee hitless for 7 2/3 innings and outpitched reigning Cy Young Award winner Corbin Burnes as the San Diego Padres snapped a four-game skid with a 7-0 victory over the Brewers on Friday night.Musgrove, who pitched the only no-hitter in Padres history last season, nearly did it again. Kolten Wong got the Brewers’ only hit with a two-out, eighth-inning double that took a hop on the warning track and bounced off the right-field wall.Musgrove stayed in the game and retired Pablo Reyes for the final out in the eighth to finish with a career-high 114 pitches. Musgrove (6-0) threw 112 pitches in his no-hitter, a 3-0 victory over the Texas Rangers on April 9, 2021.Craig Stammen retired the side in order in the ninth to complete the shutout.Musgrove’s latest performance continued his stellar start to the season. Musgrove, who lowered his ERA to 1.64, has gone at least six innings and hasn’t allowed more than two runs in any of his 10 starts.ADVERTISEMENTThis game matched two of the game’s top pitchers in Musgrove and Burnes. While Musgrove remained sharp, Burnes struggled through his worst start of the season.The Padres scored single runs in each of the first two innings off the 2021 NL Cy Young Award winner before breaking the game open with Manny Machado’s three-run homer in the fourth. All the Padres’ runs against Burnes came with two outs.MLBSuárez's homer in 9th lifts Mariners to 4-3 win over RangersLane Thomas slugs 3 homers, powers Nationals past Reds 8-5Thomas hits 2 of Diamondbacks' 5 HRs in win over PiratesArozarena homers, McClanahan pitches Rays past White Sox 6-3Burnes allowed eight hits and five runs in 3 2/3 innings as his ERA climbed from 1.95 to 2.50. He hadn’t allowed that many runs in a game since also yielding five runs in a 9-5 victory over the Atlanta Braves on July 30. This marked his shortest stint since lower back discomfort caused him to leave after 3 2/3 innings in a 4-2 loss at St. Louis on Sept. 24, 2020.Jurickson Profar had three hits and drove in two runs. Trent Grisham had two hits and scored twice. José Azocar and Luke Voit added two hits each. San Diego’s victory kept Milwaukee’s Craig Counsell one victory away from matching Phil Garner’s Brewers franchise record for managerial victories. Counsell owns a 562-500 record. Garner went 563-617 from 1992-99.TRAINER’S ROOMPadres: OF Wil Myers went on the 10-day injured list retroactive to June 1 with right knee inflammation. Myers had played in just one game this week while dealing with the injury. “The more he worked, the tougher it felt,” manager Bob Melvin said. “He just wasn’t going to be able to get through a game.” The Padres recalled OF Brent Rooker from Triple-A El Paso.Brewers: SS Luis Urías left after three innings due to right thumb discomfort. ... IF Mike Brosseau went on the 10-day injured list with a sprained right ankle. The Brewers recalled RHP Luke Barker, C Alex Jackson and IF/OF Pablo Reyes from Triple-A Nashville, optioned RHP Peter Strzelecki to Nashville and designated C Alex Hall for assignment.UP NEXTMacKenzie Gore (3-1, 1.71 ERA) pitches for the Padres and Aaron Ashby (1-3, 2.70) starts for the Brewers in a Saturday night matchup of left-handers. Ashby is the nephew of Andy Ashby, who pitched for the Padres from 1993-99 and in 2004.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/mlb and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports