BRIDGE CITY, La. (AP) — Control has been restored at a Louisiana juvenile detention center where a group of inmates sparked a riot after breaking out of their living areas and taking over parts of the building.Deputies were called to the Bridge City Center for Youth just before 10 p.m. Thursday after about 20 youths escaped their quarters, news outlets reported. Two inmates and an employee were injured. The extent of their injuries was not released.The juvenile detention center was back under control as of midnight after a two-hour standoff, according to Sheriff’s Office spokesperson Jason Rivarde. Deputies, canines and the SWAT team were called to restore order at the facility.“It takes a lot of personnel to come here and secure a facility of this size,” Rivarde said. “It’s what we have to do because of the problems we are having here.”No one escaped the facility’s grounds during Thursday night’s uprising.ADVERTISEMENTThe sheriff’s office said an investigation in underway to determine what started the uprising.The uprising came the same day that five juveniles escaped through a hole they cut in a bathroom ceiling. Four of the five escapees had been found as of Friday morning. Authorities continued to look for a 16-year-old boy from Tangipahoa Parish.PoliticsTrump weighs another run as GOP rivals eye own campaignsWatergate 50th meets Jan. 6. Common thread: Thirst for powerWallowing in Watergate 50 years later: A political quizBiden hosts climate meeting amid high gas price pressureThere was no word on whether the two incidents are connected.The recent chaos at the juvenile detention center drew sharp criticism from Jefferson Parish elected officials.“The (Office of Juvenile Justice administration) is aware this is happening,” state Sen. Pat Connick said after Thursday’s escape but before the takeover. Connick said the state promises to improve things, “but nothing gets done.”“It’s only a matter of time before someone gets hurt,” he said.Friday morning, Connick told WWL-TV that the takeover was a tipping point and described it as a riot. He said he will ask the governor and state legislature to shut down the facility.