Mark Appel is proof that even for a No. 1 draft pick, the road to the major leagues is sometimes a bumpy one.Appel was called up by the Philadelphia Phillies on Saturday, nine years after he was drafted first overall by Houston. In between, he bounced around the minors, was traded in the 2015 deal that sent Ken Giles to the Astros — and even quit baseball for a bit.He resurfaced last year and finally joined the Phillies this weekend, although he didn’t pitch. If the 30-year-old Appel does appear in a game for Philadelphia, he’ll be the fourth No. 1 overall selection to make his major league debut this year, joining 2017′s Royce Lewis (Twins), 2019′s Adley Rutschman (Orioles) and 2020′s Spencer Torkelson (Tigers).Only one other time have four top picks made their debuts in one year. That was in 1989, when Andy Benes, Ken Griffey Jr. and Jeff King — the No. 1 pick in each of the previous three years — all began their big league careers. The other top pick to make his debut in 1989 was Ben McDonald, who had actually been drafted that same year by Baltimore.ADVERTISEMENTWith the draft coming up next month, here are a few other notes about the history of No. 1 overall picks, with some help from Baseball-Reference.com:MLBPirates aim to end 3-game skid, take on the NationalsRockies try to keep home win streak alive, host the DodgersBlue Jays host the Red Sox to open 3-game seriesMariners host the Orioles to open 3-game series— Although so far, 1989 is the only year four top picks have made their big league debuts, there were other seasons when three No. 1s did it. Those were 2007 (Luke Hochevar, Justin Upton and Josh Hamilton) and 1987 (B.J. Surhoff, Shawn Abner and Tim Belcher).— Although it was more common in the early days of the draft, McDonald is the last player to make his debut the same year he was drafted first overall. The longest wait belongs to Matt Bush, who was taken in 2004 by San Diego and finally pitched in the majors in 2016 for Texas. He’s still with the Rangers.— Appel is one of a handful of No. 1 picks who haven’t played in the majors. Steve Chilcott, picked in 1966 by the New York Mets, and Brien Taylor, taken by the New York Yankees in 1991, had injury problems. Brady Aiken, selected in 2014 by Houston, is a more recent example. Last year’s top pick, Henry Davis, has reached Double-A in the Pittsburgh Pirates’ system.TRIVIA TIMEAppel was drafted by two other teams (and didn’t sign) before the Astros picked him first overall. Who were those franchises?LINE OF THE WEEKAustin Hays had to beat the weather to hit for the cycle. On Wednesday night, Hays and the Orioles routed Washington 7-0 in a game shortened to six innings. That was enough time — he hit a single in the first, a homer in the third, a triple in the fourth and a double in the sixth.COMEBACK OF THE WEEKDown 2-0 with two outs in the ninth and nobody on, the Los Angeles Dodgers had a 1.1% chance of beating Atlanta on Sunday night, according to Baseball Savant. Then ex-Dodger Kenley Jansen allowed a pair of singles, putting men on first and third. After Chris Taylor stole second, Trayce Thompson’s single scored both runners to force extra innings.Each team scored once in the 10th before the Dodgers finally won 5-3 in 11. Los Angeles won two of three in Freddie Freeman’s return to Atlanta.ADVERTISEMENTTRIVIA ANSWERThe Detroit Tigers drafted Appel out of high school in 2009 in the 15th round. He was picked eighth overall by the Pittsburgh Pirates in 2012 before returning to Stanford for his senior season and moving up to No. 1.___Follow Noah Trister at www.Twitter.com/noahtrister___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/mlb and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports