GENEVA (AP) — Two senior Libyan officials began two days of talks Tuesday on constitutional arrangements for elections, the latest U.N. effort to bridge gaps between the country’s rivals.Aguila Saleh, the influential speaker of the country’s east-based parliament, and Khaled al-Meshri, head of the government’s Supreme Council of State, based in the west, in the capital of Tripoli, met at the U.N. headquarters in Geneva.According to the United Nations, the talks will focus on a draft constitutional framework for elections after Libya’s rival factions failed to reach an agreement in their last round of talks in the Egyptian capital of Cairo.The criteria for a presidential candidacy were a contentious point in the talks, according to Libyan media. The Tripoli-based council insisted on banning military personal from running for the country’s top post — apparently a move directed at the divisive commander Khalifa Hifter, whose forces are loyal to the east-based administration.ADVERTISEMENTHifter had announced his bid in elections slated for last December but the vote was not held because of myriad issues, including controversial hopefuls who had announced bids and disputes about election laws.There are growing tensions on the ground, and sporadic clashes between rival militias recently erupted in Tripoli. Living conditions have also deteriorated, mainly because of fuel shortages in the oil-rich nation. Tribal leaders have shut down many oil facilities, including the country’s largest field.PoliticsElection 2022: Abortion central in first post-Roe primariesPost-Roe: Dems challenge GOP to show they care for mothersUS House: Boebert primary, runoffs, incumbent vs. incumbentJan. 6 panel to hold surprise hearing, present new evidenceThe blockade was largely meant to cut off key state revenues to the incumbent Prime Minister Abdul Hamid Dbeibah, who has refused to step down even though the vote was not held in December.Now, Dbeibah and another prime minister, Fathy Bashagha, appointed by the east-based parliament to lead a transitional government, are claiming power. The rivalry has sparked fears the oil-rich country could slide back to fighting after tentative steps toward unity last year.Libya has been wrecked by conflict since a NATO-backed uprising toppled and killed longtime dictator Moammar Gadhafi in 2011. The country was then for years split between rival administrations in the east and west, each supported by different militias and foreign governments.