CHICAGO (AP) — Paul Goldschmidt homered to extend his hitting streak to 25 games, Corey Dickerson went deep twice and the St. Louis Cardinals routed the Chicago Cubs 14-5 on Friday.Nolan Gorman and Lars Nootbaar also went deep as the Cardinals rolled to their fourth win in five games.Goldschmidt hit a three-run drive in the third for his 12th home run. The six-time All-Star closed in on his career-high 26-game hitting streak with Arizona in 2013 and extended a personal best by reaching base in his 39th consecutive game. Goldschmidt has 10 homers and 36 RBIs in his last 22 games, a stretch that began May 11,. He has a National League-leading .349 average and 47 RBIs, tied for the NL lead with the Mets’ Pete Alonso.Dickerson sparked a five-run fourth against Marcus Stroman (2-5) when he lined a tiebreaking solo shot to right or his first homer. He and Nootbaar hit back-to-back solo homers in the against Frank Schwindel, who took the mound in the ninth after starting as the designated hitter.ADVERTISEMENTGorman launched a long three-run drive in the fourth to make it 9-4.Tommy Edman singled three times and scored three runs. Harrison Bader and Nolan Arenado each had two hits. Bader — celebrating his 28th birthday — also scored twice.MLBYanks' Donaldson off IL, making 1st start since Anderson banPhillies fire Girardi in wake of another lackluster seasonKepler, Pagán among 4 unvaccinated Twins to miss Jays seriesOrioles promote Eve Rosenbaum to assistant general managerMiles Mikolas (4-3) allowed four runs and eight hits in five innings. Zack Thompson pitched four innings in his major league debut and earned a save.Stroman, coming off a string of strong starts, got pounded for a career-high nine runs and 10 hits in four innings. The right-hander had a 1.80 ERA in his previous five outings.Patrick Wisdom hit a three-run homer in the first and RBI single in the seventh. Rookie Christopher Morel extended a club record by reaching base in his first 17 games, when he singled and scored in the third. But the Cubs had their three-game win streak snapped.TRANSACTIONSThe Cardinals shuffled their bullpen, recalling right-hander Johan Oviedo and selecting Thompson’s contract from Triple-A Memphis. They optioned lefty Matthew Liberatore and righty Kodi Whitley to the minor league club.TRAINER’S ROOMCardinals: 2B Nolan Gorman was back in the lineup as the designated hitter after missing the previous three games because of lower back tightness. ... OFs Tyler O’Neill (right shoulder impingement) and Dylan Carlson (strained left hamstring) were to begin rehab assignments — O’Neill with Triple-A Memphis and Carlson with Double-A Springfield. Cubs: C Willson Contreras was out of the lineup after being hit in the left ankle by a pitch Thursday, though he was available off the bench. … RHP Adbert Alzolay (strained right shoulder) was to resume playing catch in Arizona. He is on the 60-day IL.UP NEXTThe five-game, four-day series continues with a split doubleheader. Both teams were waiting to announce their starters, though Cubs manager David Ross acknowledged Caleb Killian — acquired from San Francisco last season in the deal that sent former MVP Kris Bryant to the Giants — was a possibility for one of the games.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports