LOS ANGELES (AP) — Michael Chavis and Tucupita Marcano each hit two-run homers and the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 5-3 on Tuesday night to take their second straight series from the NL West leaders.The Pirates won four of five games against the Dodgers in May and conclude their visit on Wednesday. They rapped out 11 hits in their first series win at Dodger Stadium since 2016.“It is some of the best games we’ve played,” Pirates manager Derek Shelton said. “We’ve just really been consistent against a really good team.”The Dodgers dropped just their fifth series of the season after wasting several chances. They failed to capitalize on seven walks and a hit batter while managing just four hits. They were 2 for 15 with runners in scoring position in the first two games. Freddie Freeman was thrown out in the seventh trying to stretch a single into a double one night after his costly ninth-inning error.ADVERTISEMENT“We just didn’t do a good job,” third baseman Justin Turner said. “We can play better.”Mitch Keller (2-5) allowed two runs and two hits in five innings, ending a five-game skid as a starter. The right-hander, who struck out five and walked five, worked out of the bullpen in his last two appearances.MLBRoyals enter matchup with the Guardians on losing streakRockies play the Marlins with 1-0 series leadReds attempt to sweep 2-game series against the Red SoxAstros take 3-game road win streak into game against the AthleticsWil Crowe retired the side in the ninth to earn his second save.Marcano has hit safely in five of his first six games with the Pirates, highlighted by his first career homer — a three-run shot — in Monday’s 6-5 win.“My confidence feels great now,” Marcano said in Spanish through a translator. “I’m seeing pitches really well. To help my team win means a lot to me.”Chavis sent an 0-2 pitch from Julio Urías into the Dodgers’ bullpen in the first inning, giving the Pirates a 2-0 lead as left fielder Kevin Pillar climbed the fence in an attempt to snag the ball.Chavis was robbed of another potential homer in the fifth. Chris Taylor crashed into the center-field wall making the catch and came away shaking out his right arm which took the brunt of the impact.Marcano blasted his two-out, two-run shot in the second on Urías’ first pitch for a 4-0 lead. “I went up there and I was hunting for the fastball and I connected well,” Marcano said. “I’ve been locked in. I’m a huge believer in having a strong mindset. That gives me an extra bit of confidence.”Urías (3-5) struggled early, getting out of a bases-loaded jam with consecutive swinging strikeouts in the third, before settling down over his final three innings. He gave up four runs and eight hits on his bobblehead night. The left-hander struck out eight and walked one.After a leadoff walk to Mookie Betts, the Dodgers cut their deficit to 4-2 in the third on Trea Turner’s two-run homer. He had a broken-bat single in the first that extended his hitting streak to 23 games, tops in the majors this season.The Dodgers closed to 4-3 in the sixth when Justin Turner scored from third on a wild pitch by Tyler Beede. Bryan Reynolds provided the Pirates with an insurance run in the ninth on his RBI double off David Price. ADVERTISEMENTTRAINER’S ROOMDodgers: OF Cody Bellinger sat out his second straight game because of left leg tightness. He’s likely to be back in the lineup Wednesday. ... LF Clayton Kershaw (pelvis) will throw a bullpen session Wednesday. He’ll pitch 3 to 4 innings in a rehab stint on Saturday and could rejoin the team six days later. ... RH Andrew Heaney (shoulder discomfort) will make three rehab starts for Triple-A Oklahoma City. UP NEXTPirates: LHP Jose Quintana (1-2, 2.15 ERA) won his first game with Pittsburgh against the Dodgers on May 9, allowing two hits in six scoreless innings of a 5-1 victory. Dodgers: RHP Mitch White (1-0, 4.60) makes his second start of the season. He tossed four scoreless innings at Arizona last week. ___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports