TORONTO (AP) — Alejandro Kirk hit a pair of two-run home runs in Toronto’s 6-5 win over the Chicago White Sox on Tuesday, which extended the Blue Jays’ streak to six games.Kevin Gausman (5-3) pitched five innings to win his second straight start, getting five strikeouts while allowing three runs, six hits and one walk. The right-hander has won four of his past six outings.Kirk connected in the second for his second of the season, then went deep again with a two-out drive in the fifth, the third multi-homer game of his career. Both came off of White Sox right-hander Lucas Giolito (3-2), who allowed season-highs of six runs and eight hits in 4 2/3 innings and raised his ERA from 2.63 to 3.61.Giolito hadn’t allowed more than three earned runs in any of his seven prior starts this season, but it was the third time he’s given up at least two home runs.Toronto is 15-7 in one-run games, the best such record in the majors, and have won four consecutive one-run decisions.ADVERTISEMENTAndrew Vaughn homered and had four hits and two RBI for the White Sox, who began a stretch without All-Star shortstop Tim Anderson. He is expected to miss at least three weeks after straining his right groin in Sunday’s win over the Cubs.MLBFamous dad watches as Tigers' Kody Clemens makes MLB debutKirby earns first career win as Mariners blank Orioles 10-0Castillo, Votto lead Reds to 1st Fenway win since '75 SeriesCanha has 4 of Mets' 17 hits to rout Nats, 5th win in rowTrevor Richards allowed two runs without retiring any of the four batters he faced in the sixth but Adam Cimber, Yimi Garcia and Juliam Merryweather each worked one scoreless inning and Jordan Romano finished for his AL-leading 16th save in 18 chances.Danny Mendick and Vaughn had RBI hits off Gausman in the fifth as Chicago took a 3-2 lead but Toronto scored four in the bottom half on Kirk’s second homer and a two-run double by Teoscar Hernández that fell beyond the reach of diving center fielder Adam Engel.Four straight Chicago batters reached against Richards to begin the sixth as Reese McGuire’s second double of the game drove in a run to make it 6-5.TRAINER’S ROOMWhite Sox: OF Luis Robert was activated off the COVID-19 IL. ... Anderson’s IL stint is retroactive to May 30. … OF AJ Pollock sat because of a non-COVID illness. … INF Yoán Moncada (quadriceps) did not start for the fourth straight game. … OF Eloy Jiménez (right hamstring) missed his second straight game at Triple-A Charlotte. Jiménez left Saturday’s game because of soreness in his leg.ROSTER MOVESToronto recalled RHP Trent Thornton from Triple-A Buffalo. LHP Ryan Borucki was designated for assignment.UP NEXTWhite Sox RHP Michael Kopech (1-1, 1.29) will face Blue Jays LHP Hyun Jin Ryu (2-0, 5.48) on Wednesday night. Ryu went 0-2 with a 9.31 ERA in two 2021 starts against Chicago.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports