DETROIT (AP) — Jose Abreu hit a pair of two-run homers and Luis Robert singled home the go-ahead run in the fifth inning to help the Chicago White Sox beat the Detroit Tigers 9-5 on Monday night.Abreu sent a soaring shot over the left-center fence in the first to give the White Sox a 2-0 lead. He hit a line drive in the ninth over a row of hedges beyond the wall in center to give Chicago a four-run cushion.White Sox right-hander Lance Lynn made his season debut, coming back from surgery on his right knee, and gave up three runs on 10 hits over 4 1/3 innings. Lynn had a heated exchange with Chicago third base coach Joe McEwing in the dugout after the second inning.Bennett Sousa (3-0) was credited with the win after throwing 1 1/3 innings of scoreless relief.Rony Garcia (0-2) allowed four runs on five hits and two walks over four-plus innings.Willi Castro hit a leadoff homer for the Tigers and scored twice. Miguel Cabrera had two hits, including an RBI single. Harold Castro had three hits and two RBIs. ADVERTISEMENTKody Clemens, the son of seven-time Cy Young Award winner Roger Clemens, went 2 for 2 with a walk and scored twice — his first two major league hits after starting his career 0 for 17.MLBHoskins' RBI double in 9th lifts Phillies over Marlins 3-2Goldschmidt, Carlson homer, Cards send Pirates to 7th lossAuburn, Stanford heading to Omaha; SEC nabs 4 of 8 CWS spotsAuburn secures final spot in College World SeriesAfter Will Vest threw an inning of scoreless relief, Andrew Chafin entered for the Tigers and made a costly throwing error in the sixth. Chafin fielded Reese McGuire’s sacrifice bunt and threw wide of third base, allowing two runs to score that gave Chicago a 6-3 lead.The defending AL Central champion White Sox had lost four of five.Detroit has dropped six of nine.RESTRICTED LIST FOR RODRIGUEZDetroit left-hander Eduardo Rodriguez has been placed on the restricted list. General manager Al Avila announced Monday that Rodriguez informed the Tigers that he will not rejoin the team due to personal matters.TRAINER’S ROOMWhite Sox: DH Jake Burger left midway through the game with a bruised right hand after being hit by a pitch on a swing. X-rays were negative and he’s day to day. ... C Yasmani Grandal went on the 10-day injured list, retroactive to June 12, with lower back spasms. UP NEXTChicago expects to start RHP Dylan Cease (4-3, 3.14 ERA), while Detroit is planning a bullpen game Tuesday night.___More on AP MLB: https://apnews.com/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports