CHICAGO (AP) — Dylan Cease struck out a career-high 13 over seven innings, Gavin Sheets homered and the Chicago White Sox avoided a four-game sweep, hanging on to beat Baltimore 4-3 Sunday after the Orioles scored twice in the ninth inning.The Orioles, aided by two errors by first baseman José Abreu, loaded the bases against Kendall Graveman with none out before Jonathan Araúz lined an RBI single.After pinch hitter Rougned Odor struck out, Cedric Mullins cut it to 4-3 with a sacrifice fly. Graveman struck out Trey Mancini for his third save as the White Sox ended a four-game skid, eluding their first four-game sweep at home since Sept. 4-7, 2017 against Cleveland.The Orioles’ season-high four-game winning streak ended.Cease (6-3), fifth in the majors in strikeouts coming into the game, kept the Orioles off balance with a high-90s fastball and nasty off-speed pitches. The right-hander allowed four hits, walked one and surpassed his previous high of 11 strikeouts, which he matched in Chicago’s win over Toronto on Tuesday. The only run he allowed came on a homer by Araúz.ADVERTISEMENTSheets hit a two-run drive against Jordan Lyles in the second. José Abreu singled twice and scored two runs.Highly touted rookie Lenyn Sosa picked up his first major league hit when he doubled in the third and scored. Seby Zavala added an RBI single in the fourth.MLBMcClanahan strikes out 10, Rays beat Pirates 4-2 for sweepYankees' Judge walks off Astros for 2nd time in 4 daysM's, Angels get in big brawl after inside pitches, 8 ejectedBuxton's RBI triple sparks Twins in 6-3 win vs. RockiesJoe Kelly worked around back-to-back singles by Mullins and Mancini in the eighth. Graveman subbed for Liam Hendriks, who is sidelined with a strained right forearm.Lyles (4-7) went seven innings, allowing four runs and six hits.TRAINER’S ROOMOrioles: RHP Kyle Bradish (right shoulder inflammation) should be ready to return from the 15-day injured list around the time he is eligible, manager Brandon Hyde said. He was placed on the IL on Thursday after experiencing soreness following a side session a few days earlier.White Sox: OF Adam Haseley, who was going to be in the lineup, was ill, manager Tony La Russa said.UP NEXTOrioles: RHP Tyler Wells (5-4, 3.34 ERA) looks to win his fourth straight start as the Orioles open a three-game series at Seattle. Wells, who tossed five scoreless innings against Washington on Wednesday, is 4-0 in his past five outings. RHP George Kirby (2-2, 3.12) gets the ball for the Mariners.White Sox: RHP Lucas Giolito (4-4, 5.40) looks to steady himself after posting a 9.47 ERA in his past five starts as the White Sox visit the Los Angeles Angels. RHP Noah Syndergaard (4-6, 3.86) pitches for the Angels.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports