EASTBOURNE, England (AP) — Two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova tuned up for the Grand Slam tournament by overpowering Jelena Ostapenko 6-3, 6-2 to win the Eastbourne title on Saturday.Also, Taylor Fritz outlasted Maxime Cressy 6-2, 6-7 (4), 7-6 (4) in an all-American men’s final for his second Eastbourne title.Kvitova earned her first grass-court title in four years — and 29th trophy of her singles career — after breaking Ostapenko, the defending champion, early in both sets of the final and feasting on the Latvian’s second serve.Kvitova saved five break points in the fourth game of the second set to stay in control of the match at 3-1.“Playing on the grass is very special for me every time,” the Czech player said on court. “It’s the best preparation for Wimbledon, as well.”Kvitova, the Wimbledon champion in 2011 and 2014, begins another campaign on Tuesday against Jasmine Paolini of Italy.ADVERTISEMENTShe is 5-1 in grass-court finals. Her most recent was in 2018 in Birmingham. The eighth-seeded Ostapenko, a Wimbledon semifinalist four years ago, won the 2017 French Open.After the final, Ostapenko withdrew from the women’s doubles final alongside Ukrainian partner Lyudmyla Kichenok because of a toe problem on her right foot. The walkover handed the title to Aleksandra Krunic of Serbia and Magda Linette of Poland.Tennis2017 US Open finalist Keys, Coric injured, out of WimbledonWhat to know ahead of Wimbledon: Djokovic won't get vaccineSerena Williams puts 'Out of office' on for Wimbledon returnGarcia beats Andreescu to win Bad Homburg titleOstapenko is the 12th seed at Wimbledon and has a first-round match scheduled on Monday against Oceane Dodin of France.Fritz could rely on his serve in his first meeting with Cressy. Fritz didn’t face a break point in the final, he won 92% of his first serves, and launched 17 aces. Even so, it took him more than two hours to get on top of Cressy, who was playing his first ATP final. Fritz didn’t drop his serve all week.“My grass season wasn’t going great before I arrived here,” Fritz said. “But it is great to beat these players and it gives me confidence. I played really well all week and going into Wimbledon, I feel good.”Fritz, ranked 14th, won his third ATP title, second in Eastbourne beside 2019, and second this year after Indian Wells in March.Fritz has drawn Lorenzo Musetti of Italy in the first round of Wimbledon next week. Cressy, ranked 60th, has sixth seed Felix Auger-Aliassime of Canada.___More AP tennis: https://apnews.com/hub/tennis and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports