DETROIT (AP) — Dylan Cease allowed one unearned run in five innings to remain unbeaten in 10 decisions against Detroit, and the Chicago White Sox beat the Tigers 5-1 on Tuesday night.Cease (5-3) gave up seven hits and a walk. He struck out eight while improving to 10-0 with a 1.91 ERA in 11 career starts against the Tigers. He’s the first pitcher to win his first 10 decisions against an opponent since Jamie Moyer started 10-0 against the Marlins in 2006-08.“I’m aware of it, and it is obviously great,” Cease said. “I try not to give it too much thought, because I don’t want to jinx it, but it is something cool.”Andrew Vaughn had four hits and Luis Robert drove in a pair of runs for the White Sox. Vaughn, who also drew a walk, is hitting .563 with seven RBIs in five games against the Tigers this season. Chicago is 4-1 against the Tigers, with all five games coming in Detroit.“We’re here to get hits, but that’s tough to do in this league,” Vaughn said. “I’m seeing the ball well, putting good swings on it and running as fast as I can.”ADVERTISEMENTDrew Hutchison (0-4) gave up two runs on five hits and two walks in four innings. Detroit is 1-4 to start a 10-game homestand.“We lost the game - that’s the first thing I think about every time we lose a game,” Tigers manager A.J. Hinch said.MLBGonsolin earns 8th victory, Dodgers edge Angels 2-0LEADING OFF: Braves go for 14th straight, Flaherty returnsReds try to extend road win streak in matchup against the DiamondbacksMariners and Twins meet with series tied 1-1The Tigers are averaging 2.75 runs. Only one team in the last 113 seasons has scored fewer per game: the 1942 Philadelphia Phillies at 2.61.“It is frustrating,” Hinch said. “We’re well into June, and I know everyone is tired of me saying ‘just win today’s game,’ but the reason is this sport will drag you into misery if you keep looking at those numbers.”Both teams loaded the bases in the first inning, but Hutchison struck out Leury García to escape unscathed. Cease was at fault for Detroit’s run, throwing away a pick-off attempt to allow Victor Reyes to score.Hutchison wasn’t as fortunate in the second. He retired the first two batters, but the next four White Sox hitters singled, with Vaughn and Robert driving in Danny Mendick and A.J. Pollock.“He got out of some significant trouble and even in the second, he was around the plate and did a good job of getting out the problem he got into,” Hinch said. “That’s what Hutch does. He gives you a chance.”That made it 2-1, and the White Sox added two more runs off Wily Peralta in the fifth. Vaughn led off the inning with his third single, and Peralta hit Robert. After José Abreu struck out, Yoán Moncada doubled to make it 3-1 and García followed with a sacrifice fly.Robert’s two-out bloop single drove in Pollock to give the White Sox a 5-1 lead in the sixth.“We had innings in the second and the sixth where we started with two outs and still put runs across the plate,” White Sox manager Tony LaRussa said. “When we are going good, that’s something we do a lot - we make you get all three outs.”TRAINER’S ROOMThe White Sox placed closer Liam Hendricks on the injured list, retroactive to June 12, while Joe Kelly returned from a hamstring strain. ADVERTISEMENTROOKIE GETTING A BREAKTigers 1B Spencer Torkelson was given a planned day off against Cease. The first overall pick in the 2020 draft, Torkelson’s major league debut has been dismal. In 55 games, he’s hitting .181 with four homers and has struck out 53 times in 171 at-bats. He’s 3 for 38 since May 31, leading Hinch to leave him in the dugout on Tuesday.UP NEXTThe teams finish their three-game series on Wednesday afternoon. Alex Faedo (1-2, 2.92) will pitch for Detroit against Vince Velasquez (2-3, 5.30) on a day with high temperatures expected to approach 100 degrees.