DENVER (AP) — Travis d’Arnaud homered twice, including a grand slam, and drove in a career-high six runs as the Atlanta Braves pounced on Colorado’s struggling pitching in a 13-6 rout of the Rockies on Thursday night. D’Arnaud was 3 for 5 and scored three times, and the Braves had 18 hits against the Rockies, who have allowed 39 runs over the past three games. C.J. Cron hit his 14th homer, Garrett Hampson also went deep and Charlie Blackmon went 4 for 5 in Colorado’s 17th loss in 24 games. After allowing 26 runs over 19 innings in a doubleheader split Wednesday against Miami, the Rockies hoped Austin Gomber (2-6) would give them a long, effective outing. The lefty instead was charged with nine runs and 10 hits over five innings. The tired bullpen wasn’t any better, with Ty Blach allowing four runs and seven hits over three innings.D’Arnaud smacked Gomber’s changeup to left field for a two-run homer in the third, then pulled his curveball over the wall in the fifth for his second career grand slam to make it 9-1. D’Arnaud, who last had a multi-homer game in 2019, entered the night batting .250 with four homers. ADVERTISEMENTIan Anderson (4-3) allowed five runs and 10 hits with nine strikeouts over six innings. MLBRangers acquire Morel for Abreu 3 days after pitcher DFA'edCastillo shines as Mariners edge Orioles 7-6 in 10 inningsTaillon nears perfection in Yankees' 2nd win over AngelsTaillon loses perfecto in 8th, Yanks rally to sweep AngelsColorado second baseman Brendan Rodgers doubled in the seventh to extend his hitting streak to 20 games, and Connor Joe doubled twice to push his on-base streak to 29 games. TRAINER’S ROOMBraves: After not playing Wednesday, OF Ronald Acuna Jr. went 2 for 5 with an RBI as the DH. Manager Brian Snitker said it’s part of the slow process of recovering from right ACL surgery. “I think he’s doing a great job of being forthright with how he feels and not covering anything up,” Snitker said.Rockies: OF Kris Bryant, on the injured list for a second time with a sore back, did some light running and throwing in the outfield 3 1/2 hours before the game. Bryant has not started hitting. ... OF Yonathan Daza, hit with a 98 mph pitch above the left elbow in Game 1 of Wednesday’s doubleheader, was out of the lineup for a second straight game. “He’ll be fine,” manager Bud Black said. HILLIARD VS. ALSSam Hilliard was in concussion protocol after diving for a ball Wednesday and couldn’t play on the majors’ second annual Lou Gehrig Day. The Colorado outfielder’s father, Jim, died in September of the same disease that took the Yankees great’s life — Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis — now known as Lou Gehrig’s disease. Hilliard and his Texas-based family have since started the Team Hilliard Foundation to help fund ALS research. “I’m happy that I’m able to help represent the ALS community because after getting to know a lot of these people, they’re just incredible people who are fighting like hell to do anything they can to find some hope, find a cure,” Hilliard said before the game. Hilliard’s mother, Tamara, helped pitch the Lou Gehrig Day idea to Major League Baseball. She attended the game. “Jim and I would talk to Sam after the games,” Tamara Hilliard said. “I still do, but it’s not the same. It’s not the same without his dad.”ADVERTISEMENTUP NEXTThe Braves, the only team in the majors without a three-game winning streak, will try again to accomplish the feat Friday night when LHP Max Fried (5-2, 3.10 ERA) faces Rockies RHP Chad Kuhl (4-2, 3.56). ___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports