MILWAUKEE (AP) — Bryce Harper, Kyle Schwarber and Odúbel Herrera homered as interim manager Rob Thomson and the streaking Philadelphia Phillies won their season-high seventh straight game, beating the sagging Milwaukee Brewers 8-3 on Thursday.Thomson, 6-0 since replacing Joe Girardi, is off to the best start by a first-time major league manager since Boston’s Joe Morgan won his first 12 games from July 15-25, 1988, the Elias Sports Bureau said.The NL Central-leading Brewers lost their season-worst sixth in a row.Didi Gregorius singled, tripled, doubled and drove in a run, and Seranthony Dominguez (3-1) pitched one inning Reigning NL Cy Young Award winner Corbin Burnes (3-4) allowed three runs — one earned — in 4 1/3 innings.DODGERS 11, WHITE SOX 9CHICAGO (AP) — Max Muncy broke open the game with a three-run homer in the sixth inning after White Sox manager Tony La Russa ordered an intentional walk to Trea Turner with a 1-2 count against left-hander Bennett Sousa.ADVERTISEMENTMuncy had five RBIs in his return after missing 11 games with left elbow inflammation. He entered hitting .150 to Turner’s .303.Los Angeles trailed 4-0 before a six-run fifth. Brusdar Graterol (2-2) won, and Dylan Cease (4-3) was the loser.MLBLEADING OFF: Phils' Thomson aims to extend undefeated startAfter 2-strike intentional walk, Muncy powers DodgersTwins start with 3 HRs, Yanks' Cole gives up career-high 5Harper, Phils win 7th in a row, hand Brews 6th straight lossDIAMONDBACKS 5, REDS 4CINCINNATI (AP) — Josh Rojas hit a two-run, single for a 4-3 lead four-run rally in the ninth as the Diamondbacks gained a four-game split.Arizona went into the ninth trailing 3-1, but got help when Tony Santillan (0-1) threw a wild pitch, then threw away a bunt for an error,Mark Melancon (2-6), the second of three relievers for the Diamondbacks, got the win. Ian Kennedy pitched the ninth for his fourth save, despite allowing Matt Reynolds’ solo homer.A foul ball in the fourth inning broke the right thumb of Reds catcher Tyler Stephenson, who is expected to miss four to six weeks. ROCKIES 4, GIANTS 2DENVER (AP) — Yonathan Daza looped a tiebreaking single into right field, capping a three-run fourth inning fueled by three errors. San Francisco made a season-high four errors, including a pair in the fourth by second baseman Thairo Estrada.Charlie Blackmon had three hits for the Rockies, who are 3-6 against the Giants this season.Austin Gomber (3-6) allowed two runs and five hits in six innings, and Alex Colomé pitched a one-hit ninth for his third save. Logan Webb (5-2) allowed three runs — two earned — and seven hits in 5 2/3 innings.RAYS 2, CARDINALS 1ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (AP) — Shane McClanahan (7-2) allowed an unearned run and two hits in eight innings and struck out nine, winning his fifth consecutive start as Tampa Bay completed a three-game sweep.Ji-Man Choi hit a two-run homer in the fourth off Miles Mikolas (4-4), who pitched a three-hitter. Jason Adam worked the ninth for his second save, finishing a game that took 1 hour, 54 minutes as the Rays moved a season-high 11 games over .500. ___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports