WELLINGTON, New Zealand (AP) — The top-ranked Blues shook off a sluggish start to beat the Dunedin-based Highlanders 35-6 on Saturday and ensure a home semifinal in Super Rugby Pacific.The Blues were barely able to get out of their own half in the first 20 minutes and took 31 minutes to score the first try of their quarterfinal match.The Highlanders defended doggedly but lacked attacking finesse, taking only one penalty from their early territorial advantage. They were reduced to 14 men in the 21st minute when hooker Andrew Makalio was sent off for a dangerous shoulder charge on Blues lock Tom Robinson.The Highlanders extended their lead soon after Makalio’s departure with a second penalty to flyhalf Marty Banks. But the Blues, whose attack had stuttered early, began to find space and stretch the defense.Akira Ioane dashed over for their first try, then flyhalf Beauden Barrett scored tries on either side of halftime. For his first he fended off prop Ethan de Groot and sprinted 30 meters under the posts and for his second he took Rieko Ioane’s final pass after a midfield break by Roger Tuivasa-Sheck.ADVERTISEMENTBarrett also made a try from replacement A.J. Lam. His high kick was dropped by Banks near the goalline and Lam, who had followed up keenly, picked up the loose ball and scored.RugbyCrusaders beat Reds 37-15 in 1st Super Rugby quarterfinalSouth African rugby teams included in Europe's Champions CupNew Zealand Rugby to sign commercial deal with Silver LakeElement of uncertainty in Super Rugby Pacific playoffsLam won a contest for the high ball in the 68th minute and in the ensuing attack former New Zealand league star Tuivasa-Sheck scored his first Super Rugby try.“We took a bit of time to find our groove but that’s cool, we know around finals footy everyone can go into their shell,” said Barrett, who stood in as Blues captain. “But it’s great that we finally expressed ourselves and got used to playing our game again.”Both teams were without their regular captains. The Blues were missing Dalton Papali’i, who had his appendix removed, and the Highlanders lost Aaron Smith to a groin injury.Scrumhalf Brad Weber scored a try in each half to help the Hamilton-based Chiefs to a 39-15 win over the New South Wales Waratahs.Weber scored a magnificent opening try in the sixth minute to begin a dominant performance by the Chiefs who led 27-10 at halftime.He completed his double in the 64th minute, reviving the Chiefs who were in the middle of a scoring lull. Backrower Luke Jacobson and center Alex Nankivell also scored in the first half and No. 8 Pita-Gus Sowakula added to Weber’s second try to complete a five tries to two win.The Chiefs now will play the Crusaders in Christchurch in Friday’s first semifinal. The Crusaders beat the Queensland Reds 37-15 on Friday.The other semifinalist will be determined later Saturday when the fourth-place ACT Brumbies have a home quarterfinal at Canberra, Australia against the fifth-place and Wellington-based Hurricanes.“What an awesome challenge, playing the defending champions at home,” Weber said. “We’ve beaten them once down there this season, so let’s make it two. It’s incredibly satisfying to win a home quarterfinal. We haven’t had one here in my experience and I’ve been here 10 years, 110 games now.”ADVERTISEMENTThe Chiefs were outstanding in the physical aspects of Saturday’s game. They carried the ball powerfully, crashing into tackles and flooding the breakdown area which allowed them to quickly recycle possession.The Waratahs lead the tournament in forcing turnovers, mostly through the work of flankers Michael Hooper and Charlie Gamble. But they mostly were taken out of the game Saturday by the Chiefs dominance at the tackle area.The Chiefs also were physical in defense. Their crunching tackles often forced the Waratahs back behind the gain line. While the Chiefs were clinical in attack, the Waratahs made too many errors in attacking positions.“The Chiefs are a classy outfit and they’ve had the wood on us all year,” Waratahs captain Jake Gordon said. “They’re just really hard to contain when they get that front-foot ball and in turnover attack they’re exceptional.” ___More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports