SEATTLE (AP) — Mike Trout homered for the fifth time in the five-game series and Los Angeles Angels beat the Seattle Mariners 4-0 Sunday.Trout hit two home runs in the series opener and one in each of the final three games. The five home runs tied the record for any player in a single series against the Mariners, along with George Bell in 1987 and Boston’s Trevor Story earlier this season.Trout’s two-run drive in the fourth inning was his 52nd career homer against Seattle, matching Rafael Palmeiro for the most by any player off the Mariners.Los Angeles won four of five against Seattle. Prior to this series, the Angels had lost 18 of the previous 20 games, including a 14-game losing streak.“It’s big for us,” Trout said. “Obviously to do that after that skid we had last week, it’s good to win some games.”The three-time AL MVP homered on the ninth pitch of the at-bat, all fastballs. He worked a full count before connecting.ADVERTISEMENT“You go up and throw whatever you want to throw. When he’s locked in like that, usually in four, five at-bats he’s going to get into one,” Angels manager Phil Nevin said. “What he did this weekend was impressive. Not to mention playing each inning of every game, made some great plays in center field, and obviously, the big home runs each day.”MLBMatijevic homers for 1st MLB hit, Astros beat White Sox 4-3Suwinski hits 3 HRs, Pirates beat Giants 4-3Guardians rally in 9th for 5-3 victory over DodgersCaratini, Renfroe hit home runs, Brewers sweep RedsTrout has 21 homers this season, four behind major league leader Aaron Judge of the Yankees.“They talk about a guy carrying a team or whatever, it’s just uplifting for the whole group to see their guy that we can lean on,” Nevin said. “It’s not going to always be him, but this weekend it certainly was.”Max Stassi added an RBI double for the Angels.Kenny Rosenberg was called up from Triple-A Salt Lake City by the Angels to make his first career start and third major league appearance. The left-hander held the Mariners to two hits in 4 2-3 innings.“He had great stuff today,” Trout said. “He kept everyone off balance.”Andrew Wantz (1-0) got the win, pitching the sixth inning with two strikeouts. Six Angels pitchers combined on a two-hitter.“When it rains it pours. We’re in a slump right now. We’ve not played good baseball,” Seattle manager Scott Servais said. “Not being able to get anything going offensively again remains our issue and our problem that we have to solve.”Logan Gilbert (7-3) gave up two runs and four hits in six innings.The Mariners loaded the bases in the fourth on two walks and a single by J.P. Crawford, but Cal Raleigh grounded out.LEADING OFFSeattle’s Julio Rodriguez appeared to beat out an infield hit to lead off the first. Shortstop Andrew Velazquez had to dive to his right to handle the sharp grounder, and after a review it was shown his throw barely beat Rodriguez. “That’s a huge play for me momentum-wise in the first inning,” Rosenberg said.ALARMING TIMEJust before Ty France stepped into the batter’s box against Jose Quijada in the fifth, the alarm system started blaring throughout the stadium. The alarm sounded for a couple minutes before it was shut off. France then grounded out to strand a runner on third base, and the Mariners didn’t get a baserunner the rest of the game.ADVERTISEMENTROSTER MOVESThe Angels optioned INF Jack Mayfield to Triple-A Salt Lake before the game to make room for Rosenberg. LHP Jose Suarez was returned to Salt Lake after Saturday’s doubleheader after serving as the 27th player for the day.UP NEXTAngels: RHP Noah Syndergaard (4-5, 3.53) opens a three-game series at home against Kansas City. Syndergaard has lost two straight starts despite only giving up one run in each. He has allowed two runs or fewer in seven of his 10 starts.Mariners: LHP Marco Gonzales (3-7, 3.41) will start at Oakland as Seattle opens a six-game road trip. Gonzales’ last win came on May 23 against Oakland at home. He has lost three of four starts since.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/tag/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports