Nonfiction 1. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)2. Scars and Stripes by Tim Kennedy and Nick Palmisciano, narrated by Tim Kennedy (Simon & Schuster Audio)3. I’d Like to Play Alone, Please by Tom Segura, narrated by the author (Grand Central Publishing)4. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)5. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 6. Finding Me by Viola Davis, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)7. The End of the World Is Just the Beginning by Peter Zeihan, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)8. Happy-Go-Lucky by David Sedaris, narrated by the author (Little, Brown & Company)9. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)10. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio)FictionADVERTISEMENT1. Where the Crawdads Sing by Delia Owens, narrated by Cassandra Campbell (Penguin Audio)2. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)3. The Summer I Turned Pretty by Jenny Han, narrated by Lola Tung (Recorded Books)4. When It Falls Apart by Catherine Bybee, narrated by Devon Sorvari (Brilliance Audio)EntertainmentR&B hitmaker R. Kelly due in court for sex abuse sentencingR. Kelly timeline: Shining star to convicted sex traffickerRatings show Fox News viewers tuning out Jan. 6 hearingsDeBose, Kotsur, Eilish among 397 invited to film Academy5. It’s Not Summer Without You by Jenny Han, narrated by Lola Tung and Gavin Casalegno (Recorded Books)6. Hell Divers IX: Radioactive by Nicholas Sansbury Smith, narrated by R. C. Bray (Blackstone Publishing)7. The Hotel Nantucket by Elin Hilderbrand, narrated by Erin Bennett (Little, Brown & Company)8. Verity by Colleen Hoover, performed by Vanessa Johansson and Amy Landon (Audible Studios)9. The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo by Taylor Jenkins Reid, narrated by Alma Cuervo, Julia Whelan and Robin Miles (Simon & Schuster Audio)10. My Evil Mother by Margaret Atwood, narrated by Hillary Huber (Amazon Original Stories)