MILWAUKEE (AP) — Aaron Nola pitched eight sharp innings and the surging Philadelphia Phillies hit four home runs to rout the scuffling Milwaukee Brewers 10-0 on Wednesday night.The Phillies won their season-high sixth in a row, five of them since interim manager Rob Thomson took over when Joe Girardi was fired on Friday.The NL Central-leading Brewers have lost a season-worst five straight. Milwaukee has scored a total of six runs during its skid and been shut out three times.Rookie Bryson Stott went 4 for 4 with a home run and double. Bryce Harper, Rhys Hoskins and Odúbel Herrera also homered for the Phillies. Kyle Schwarber added four hits, two of them doubles.Nola (4-4), the NL leader in strikeouts, allowed four hits, walked none and fanned six.Stott and Hoskins hit two-run homers in the third off starter Adrian Houser (3-6) to stake the Phillies to a 4-0 lead.Herrera added a solo drive in the fifth off Houser, who had given up only three home runs over 51 1/3 innings in his 10 previous starts.ADVERTISEMENTHarper hit a three-run homer off Luke Barker in the ninth. The Phillies have scored six or more runs in five of their six consecutive wins.The Brewers got a runner past first base only once, when Christian Yelich singled and stole second in the sixth. Nola ended that threat by striking out Luis Urías.MLBAlcantara pitches 9 scoreless, Marlins beat Nats in 10Harris hits 2-run triple, streaking Braves pummel A's 13-2Twins tag Cortes, win 8-1 to stop Yankees' streak at 7Gonsolin, Smith, Bellinger lead Dodgers over White Sox 4-1TRAINER’S ROOMPhillies: Acquired LHP Michael Plassmeyer and cash considerations from the San Francisco Giants for C Austin Wynns. Plassmeyer will be assigned to Triple-A Lehigh Valley.Brewers: Activated SS Willy Adames and optioned INF/OF Pablo Reyes to Triple-A Nashville. Adames had been out since suffering a right high ankle sprain May 15. He experienced right quad soreness while on a rehab assignment that delayed his return. … 2B Kolten Wong, who left Tuesday’s game with right calf soreness, is day to day, manager Craig Counsell said.UP NEXTThe three-game series ends Thursday afternoon with Phillies RHP Zach Eflin (2-4, 3.88 ERA) facing Brewers RHP Corbin Burnes (3-3, 2.50 ERA).Eflin pitched eight scoreless innings in his last start, Friday against the Angels, but gave up seven earned runs in six innings in his start prior to that, May 28 at the Mets. Burnes, the reigning NL Cy Young Award winner, allowed eight hits and five runs in 3 2/3 innings in his last, Friday against the Padres.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports