BROOKLINE, Mass. (AP) — Fans at The Country Club have been welcoming to the golfers who decided to take the money and run to the Saudi-backed LIV Golf tour. The U.S. Open course itself, not so much.Only four of the players who have signed on with the breakaway tour made the cut Friday, led by Dustin Johnson and Patrick Reed at 1 over. Almost a dozen others who joined the 54-hole tour missed the cut at 3 over and were gone after 36 holes.Johnson followed a 68 in the first round with a 73 on Friday. He said he didn’t hear any guff from fans about his decision to play in LIV Golf, which has been heavily criticized because it is backed by the Saudi government. “Obviously, this is a good sports town, and a lot of people come out and support the event. The fans have been great,” Johnson said. “I haven’t really noticed any difference.” Bryson DeChambeau and Richard Bland also made it to the weekend, coming in at 2 over after 36 holes. Sergio Garcia and James Piot were among those at plus-4 who just missed. ADVERTISEMENTOther defectors who weren’t so lucky included Phil Mickelson, a six-time major champion — and six-time U.S. Open runner-up — who has become the face of the new tour. He shot a 73 on Friday to finish 11 over par. GolfKey hole from the second round of the US OpenMorikawa, Rahm, McIlroy bring buzz to Brookline in US OpenPhil Mickelson apologizes to US Open fan (no, not for that)Buckley turns to Plan C, earns late starting time at US OpenLouis Oosthuizen shot a 69 in the second round, but it followed a 77 from Thursday. Jed Morgan brought up the rear at 16 over. Johnson’s name was the biggest surprise on the list of players for the first LIV event outside London, mainly because he’s been the best player in golf over the last decade and had said in February that he would be staying put. The Daily Telegraphy reported he was given $150 million to sign.Johnson was among those who resigned their PGA Tour membership, and he quickly lost his sponsorship with Royal Bank of Canada. He has gone 16 months without winning, dating to the Saudi International in early 2021, and his world ranking has dropped to No. 16. “It was a tough decision, but I feel very confident in the decision I made,” Johnson said. “I’m definitely happy and looking forward to obviously this weekend and the rest of the events this year.”STILL STREAKINGHarris English shot a 69 on Friday, finishing the 36 holes at 2 over par, keeping his streak of making the cut in majors alive.English, who finished third at in the U.S. Open at Torrey Pines last year and fourth at Winged Foot the year before, hasn’t missed a cut at a major since the 2014 PGA Championship. That’s 15 straight times he’s teed it up in a major and made it to the weekend -- the longest active streak in golf. He’s still trying for his first win in a major. A two-time winner last year, English made it into the top 10 in the world ranking for the first time in his career. But after playing in the Sony Open in January, he had surgery to repair a torn labrum in his right hip and missed four months -- including the Masters and PGA Championship.DAFFUE’S CLIFFM.J. Daffue’s problems Friday at the U.S. Open began on a cheap piece of carpeting in a hospitality suite left of the 14th fairway. ADVERTISEMENTIf only that had been the worst of it.There was nothing about Daffue’s shot off the deck of the hospitality suite that could’ve predicted his freefall from 6-under par and a three-shot lead to outside the top 10 by the end of his second round. He hit that shot over the railing, then sailed it some 250 yards to the rough left of the green, about even with the pin. But he duffed the first pitch shot and made bogey. He followed with another bogey on No. 15, then clipped a ball clean from a greenside bunker on No. 18 to finish with a double-bogey there. The South African shot 2-over 72 and closed his day at 1 under after spending most of the morning alone in the lead. “A crazy battle,” Daffue said. “Obviously, I’m disappointed. But you expect at some stage during the week in the U.S. Open, the golf course is going to come and bite us.”It’s hardly the worst Daffue has been through. A story on pgatour.com details the depression and doubt that have been part of Daffue’s life over the last decade. It began when his future mother-in-law died in a freak accident. It continued when the financial pressure of making a living playing golf became almost too much. More recently, he suffered with a bout of COVID-19. But golf, and life, have gotten better of late. A series of strong finishes on the Korn Ferry Tour has helped him secure his PGA Tour card for 2022-23. He wrapped that up in time to play in a U.S. Open qualifier that had not originally been on his schedule. ADVERTISEMENTHe came into the week ranked 296th. Some of the best advice he’s received over the years has come from someone in his country who knows a little about U.S. Opens. Two-time champion Retief Goosen has been a mentor to Daffue. “He’s given me simple advice,” Daffue said. “It’s not try to do too much. Hit to the middle of greens. Stay within yourself and focus on the six feet directly surrounding you.” HARDY’S PLANExcept for a withdrawal on Thursday, Nick Hardy can be listed as the last player to get into the U.S. Open. The USGA was saving a spot in case Cameron Champ or J.J. Spaun won the Canadian Open, which would have been their second PGA Tour win in the last 12 months and thus made them exempt.Both missed the cut and Hardy was in. And now he will be among the last players to tee off going into the weekend at The Country Club after rounds of 69-68 for a 3-under 137.This is his fourth U.S. Open, and it’s already different from the others because of how few holes Hardy has played all week. That wasn’t entirely by design. He injured a tendon in his wrist from hitting a shot in deep rough in New Orleans. That kept him out five weeks, and he said he went 30 days without swinging a club.ADVERTISEMENTWhile failing on one pledge to find a hobby, the time off at least taught him to slow down.“I learned that I don’t need to be out there six, seven, eight hours a day grinding,” he said. “I don’t need to be touching a club every day to keep at it and keep my feels right.”There were times in previous U.S. Opens he would play 36 or 45 holes going into the first round. This week, he played 18 holes on Tuesday and only did light work on Wednesday.It seems to be working.___AP Golf Writer Doug Ferguson and National Writer Eddie Pells contributed to this report.___More AP golf: https://apnews.com/hub/golf and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports