CINCINNATI (AP) — Josh Rojas hit a go-ahead single during a four-run rally in the ninth inning and the Arizona Diamondbacks beat the Cincinnati Reds 5-4 on Thursday, earning a split in the four-game series.The Diamondbacks went into the ninth trailing 3-1, but got help from reliever Tony Santillan’s wild tosses.Pavin Smith drew a leadoff walk, went to second on a wild pitch by Santillan (0-1) and scored on Alek Thomas’ single. Santillan then threw away a bunt for an error, and a sacrifice set up Rojas’ two-run single through a drawn-in infield that made it 4-3.Rojas later scored on a grounder.The blown lead by the Reds wasted a solid pitching performance by starter Tyler Mahle, who allowed one run and four hits with a season-high 10 strikeouts over six innings. His biggest mistake was a fastball left in the middle of the zone that Smith snuck just inside the right-field foul pole for a home r leading off the Arizona fifth.ADVERTISEMENTMark Melancon (2-6), the second of three relievers for the Diamondbacks, got the win. Ian Kennedy pitched the ninth for his fourth save, despite allowing Matt Reynolds’ solo homer.The Reds scored three in the first inning when TJ Friedl, Brandon Drury and Tommy Pham each singled to load the bases with no outs and Joey Votto doubled home two runs. Kyle Farmer added a sacrifice fly.MLBMcClanahan wins 5th straight start, Rays sweep 3 from CardsReds beat pitcher Lucas Sims in salary arbitrationContreras, Cubs avoid arbitration, agree to $9.625M contractGary Sánchez, Twins agree to $9M deal, at midpointThe Reds were relatively quiet after that. Zach Davies went six for the Diamondbacks, allowing six hits while striking out seven.TRAINER’S ROOMDiamondbacks: DH Christian Walker left the game after he was hit in the helmet by a fastball from Alexis Diaz in the eighth. ... RHP Luke Weaver (elbow) will be evaluated on Friday for a potential start on Sunday.Reds: C Tyler Stephenson left the game after taking a foul ball off his right arm in the fourth inning. ... Drury was back in the lineup after missing Wednesday’s game with soreness in his right Achilles tendon. ... CF Nick Senzel, scratched from Wednesday night’s game because of a strained back, is expected to miss another day or two. ... INF/OF Max Schrock (left calf strain) may return to the lineup as early as this weekend.MOVESThe Reds recalled INF Colin Moran from Triple-A Louisville and sent RHP Jared Solomon back down. Moran started at first base, with Votto handling the DH duties.UP NEXTDiamondbacks: Scheduled to start LHP Madison Bumgarner (2-5, 3.64 ERA) in the opener Friday of a weekend series at Philadelphia. Bumgarner pitched four innings against the Reds on Monday, allowing four runs and eight hits. RHP Zack Wheeler (4-3, 3.14 ERA) is the probable starter for the Phillies. Wheeler surrendered two runs and six hits through six innings with nine strikeouts in beating the Los Angeles Angels on Saturday.Reds: RHP Luis Castillo (1-3, 3.55 ERA) is the scheduled starter in the Friday opener of a weekend series at St. Louis. He’ll face RHP Andre Pallante (1-0, 1.23 ERA). Castillo allowed five runs and six hits while striking out six through 6 1/3 innings in Sunday’s 5-4 loss to Washington. Pallante gave up a run and four hits through four innings in Saturday’s 7-4 win over the Chicago Cubs.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports