MONTGOMERY, Ala. (AP) — Investments that are a key source of funding for Alabama’s Employees Retirement System have lost ground in the slumping financial markets this year, but officials say the pension fund is sound.The system’s Board of Control heard a presentation on the latest numbers at its quarterly meeting in Montgomery on Tuesday.Retirement Systems of Alabama chief executive David Bronner also talked more broadly about the global economy and said he could not remember when it faced such a multitude of challenges.The employee retirement system, with $15 billion in assets, served more than 139,000 members last year, including about 52,000 active and retired state employees and members from local government entities. Through April, its rate of return on investments was minus 5% for this fiscal year, which started Oct. 1.Bronner, who has led the state pension program since 1973, said participants should not be concerned because they have a defined benefit plan, which means it is not dependent on the investment earnings. Plus, the long range performance of the fund has been strong, Bronner noted, including a 22% return last fiscal year. The 9% rate of return over the last 10 years puts the ERS in the top one-third of comparable public pension plans, according to the financial firm State Street.PoliticsJustices seem poised to hear elections case pressed by GOPInflation taking bite out of new infrastructure projectsDC mayor's race reflects Democratic dilemma over policingYellen: Recession not inevitable, gas tax holiday weighedADVERTISEMENTDomestic stocks for the employee system are down about 4% for the fiscal year, while overall stocks are down 5%. Domestic stocks are the biggest portion of the investments. Fixed income investments, or bonds, are down by 10%.“Normally history will show you that if the stock market sells off a little bit, the bond market acts pretty good,” said Bronner. “In this situation they’re both getting killed. I mean you’re getting hurt bad. How long does it last? Will it change? Well, of course it will change. But when? That’s the question. The stock market and bond markets are being affected by the craziest confluence of different things that I’ve ever seen.”Among those factors are soaring fuel costs and the war in Ukraine and its crippling affect on grain supplies that are a vital food source for countries in Europe and Africa, Bronner said. Drought in Africa compounds the food shortage, he said.Bronner has led the pension system during previous economic downturns, like a stock market crash in 1987, the financial fallout after the 9/11 terrorist attacks, and the Great Recession of 2007 to 2009. The current situation is different, he said.“It’s unusual from the point of view of having a fuel crisis, thrown on top of a food crisis, thrown on top of inflation,” Bronner said. “It’s all working against us right now. It could turn around just as fast. And when we say fast, we don’t mean tomorrow, or the next day, or the next week. But certainly in a matter of months.“It’s just got to settle down. If we could settle the war, that would help immensely. It would help the food crisis, and probably it would also help with the gasoline prices and things like that.”State Treasurer Young Boozer, who serves on the board of the employee retirement system, said the global problems are substantial but expressed confidence in the health of the state’s pension funds.ADVERTISEMENT“The markets are in turmoil and they have been for several months,” Boozer said. “And Dr. Bronner talked about the causes of those. And they are here, they are active, and we’re going to be dealing with these things for months to come.“How is that going to impact the fund and RSA and the participants in the plan? The plan is in good shape. We are well funded. We are well positioned. And if you look at our portfolios, we’ve got a great asset allocation. And I expect that this is just a period of turmoil that we will pass through and settle down. And I think we’re going to be in good shape going forward.”The Retirement Systems of Alabama also manages the Teachers Retirement System, a larger fund with $30 billion in assets. The quarterly numbers for the teachers system were released at a previous board meeting, showing a 5% loss on investments. But last fiscal year, teachers’ investments earned a 22.6% annualized return.Overall, the RSA manages 24 funds that had total assets of about $52 billion as of the end of last fiscal year.Bronner said the systems investments other than stocks and bonds are generally doing well. Those include the Robert Trent Jones Golf Trail, nine hotel resorts across the state, and 55 Water, the largest office building in New York City.“We’re making the most money we’ve ever made on the hotels today,” Bronner said. “Same way with the Robert Trent Jones Trail. We had the best year we’ve ever had last year (on the golf trail) and this year so far is better than last year.”