PARIS (AP) — The Latest on the French Open Grand Slam tennis tournament (all times local):___3:05 p.m.The retractable roof over Court Philippe Chatrier is closed for the men’s semifinal between Rafael Nadal and Alexander Zverev.Play has started in the match.Nadal is a 13-time champion at the French Open and owns 21 Grand Slam titles in all. Zverev is seeking his first major championship.___1:45 p.m.Coco Gauff now has a chance to leave Roland Garros with two trophies.The 18-year-old Gauff and Jessica Pegula advanced to the women’s doubles final at the French Open by beating Madison Keys and Taylor Townsend 6-4, 7-6 (4) in an all-American semifinal Friday.Gauff meets top-ranked Iga Swiatek on Saturday for the singles championship.Gauff, who is from Florida, and Pegula, a 26-year-old from New York who lost to Swiatek in the singles quarterfinals, are appearing in their first Grand Slam tournament as a team. ADVERTISEMENTGauff and Caty McNally were the runners-up in women’s doubles at last year’s U.S. Open.Barbora Krejcikova won the singles and doubles titles at the 2021 French Open, the first time a woman claimed both in the same year at Roland Garros since Mary Pierce in 2000. ___1:25 p.m.Rafael Nadal will spend his 36th birthday facing No. 3 seed Alexander Zverev in the first French Open men’s semifinal on Court Philippe Chatrier. TennisBillie Jean King receives France's Legion of Honor awardCoco Gauff, 18, to face No. 1 Swiatek in French Open finalFrench Open updates | Gauff, 18, reaches her 1st Slam finalDoctor in tow, Rafael Nadal heads to French Open semifinalsThe match is scheduled to begin at about 2:45 p.m. (8:45 a.m. ET) on Friday.No. 20 Marin Cilic will play No. 8 Casper Ruud in the second semifinal. There is rain forecast, so it is a good thing the stadium has a retractable roof. Nadal showed up at Roland Garros with his personal doctor because of chronic pain in his left foot. Nadal is seeking a 14th French Open trophy and 22nd Grand Slam title overall. Both of those numbers would add to records he already holds. Zverev and Ruud have never won a major tournament. Cilic was the champion at the 2014 U.S. OpenThe men’s singles final is Sunday.No. 1-ranked Iga Swiatek faces 18-year-old American Coco Gauff in the women’s singles final Saturday.___More AP Tennis: https://apnews.com/hub/tennis and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports