PARIS (AP) — A total of 20 men are facing a verdict Wednesday over the 2015 Paris attacks by Islamic State extremists on the Bataclan theater, Paris cafes and the national stadium.Most attention has focused on the lone surviving member of the attack team, Salah Abdeslam. Others are accused of preparing the attacks, which killed 130 people, or hiding Abdeslam from police. Some are presumed dead in Syria and were tried in absentia. Some acknowledged helping the assailants but said they were unaware of the overall attack plot.Some of the men, including both key suspects, face charges in the related attacks in March 2016 on the Brussels airport and metro. Here is a look at who they are, what they’re accused of and what potential punishment they face in Paris:ACCUSED IN COMMANDO OPERATIONSSalah Abdeslam, 32: The only survivor of the 10 attackers who set out Nov. 13, 2015, wearing explosives vests for a series of coordinated attacks. His vest was later found abandoned, undetonated. For charges including terrorist murder and kidnapping, he faces up to life in prison. The prosecutor wants no chance of parole.ADVERTISEMENTMohamed Abrini, 37: Fought with Islamic State in Syria-Iraq, accused of a managerial role, transporting attackers and weapons. For charges including complicity to terrorist murder, he risks up to a life sentence; the prosecutor wants no possibility of parole for 22 years.Islamic State groupVerdict looms in trial over 2015 Paris extremist attacksAmerican who joined Islamic State gets prison term reducedUS strike kills Yemeni al-Qaida-linked commander in Syria'I am not a murderer,' Paris attacks defendant maintainsSofien Ayari, 28: Fought with Islamic State in Syria-Iraq, accused of training attackers, supplying weapons and plotting attack on Amsterdam airport. For charges including complicity to terrorist murder, he risks up to a life sentence; the prosecutor wants no possibility of parole for 30 years.Osama Krayem, 29: Fought with Islamic State in Syria-Iraq, accused of training attackers, supplying weapons and plotting a never-realized attack on Amsterdam airport. For charges including complicity to terrorist murder, he risks up to a life sentence; the prosecutor wants no possibility of parole for 30 years.ACCUSED OF OPERATIONAL ROLE:Omar Darif, aka Ahmad Alkhald (presumed dead in Syria; tried in absentia): Fought with Islamic State group, accused of training attackers, organizing attacks. For charges including complicity to terrorist murder, he risks up to a life sentence; the prosecutor wants no possibility of parole for 30 years.Mohamed Bakkali, 35: Accused of helping plot the attacks, hiding and transporting the attackers. On charges including complicity to terrorist murder, he risks up to life in prison; the prosecutor wants no possibility of parole for 22 years.Fabien and Jean-Michel Clain (presumed dead in Syria; tried in absentia): Two brothers who converted to Islam and fought in Syria-Iraq, suspected of making video and audio messages in which Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attacks. For charges including complicity to terrorist murder, they face up to a life sentence; the prosecutor wants no possibility of parole for 22 years.Ahmed Dahmani, 33 (in prison in Turkey; tried in absentia): Fought in Syria-Iraq, accused of supplying weapons and explosives and helping prepare the attacks. For charges including complicity to terrorist murder, he risks up to life in prison; the prosecutor asked for a 30-year sentence.ADVERTISEMENTOussama Atar (presumed dead in Syria; tried in absentia): Accused of helping organize the attacks from Syria and Iraq and recruiting attackers. For charges including directing a terrorist group, he risks up to a life sentence.Obeida Aref Dibo (presumed dead in Syria; tried in absentia): Fought with Islamic State group in Syria and Iraq, accused of arranging for attackers’ travel, direct involvement in organizing attacks. For charges including complicity to terrorist murder, he risks up to a life sentence.Adel Haddadi, 34: Fought in Syria-Iraq, accused of agreeing to take part in an attack; risks up to 20 years in prison on charges of criminal association with a terrorist enterprise.Muhammad Usman, 29: Fought in Syria-Iraq, accused of agreeing to take part in an attack; risks up to 20 years in prison on charges of criminal association with a terrorist enterprise.ACCUSED OF LINKS WITH TERRORISTSAli El Haddad Asufi, 37: Accused of accompanying or helping other members of the group, he risks up to 20 years in prison for criminal association with a terrorist enterprise; the prosecutor is asking only for 16 years.ADVERTISEMENTYassine Atar, 35: Accused of accompanying or helping other members of the group, he risks up to life in prison for criminal association with a terrorist enterprise; the prosecutor only asked for a nine-year sentence.HELPING ABDESLAMMohammed Amri, 33: Accused of helping Abdeslam prepare the attacks and flee France afterward for Belgium. For charges including criminal association with a terrorist enterprise, he faces up to 20 years in prison; the prosecutor asked for eight.Hamza Attou, 28: Accused of helping Abdeslam flee France after the attacks for Belgium. For charges of relations with a terrorist enterprise, he faces up to 6 years in prison. BELGIAN HELPERSAli Oulkadi, 37: Accused of helping Abdeslam prepare the attacks and hide from police after he fled to Belgium. For charges including criminal association with a terrorist enterprise, he faces up to 20 years in prison; the prosecutor asked for five. Farid Kharkhach, 39: Accused of helping the cell in Belgium without knowing its terrorist intent, he faces up to 20 years in prison for criminal association with a terrorist enterprise; the prosecutor asked for six years.Abdellah Chouaa, 41: Accused of helping the cell in Belgium without knowing its terrorist intent, he faces up to 20 years in prison for criminal association with a terrorist enterprise; the prosecutor asked for six years.