NEW YORK (AP) — Matt Carpenter ended an 11-pitch at-bat with a leadoff home run against Shohei Ohtani, Gleyber Torres and Aaron Judge added solo shots off the two-way star, and the New York Yankees beat the Los Angeles Angels 6-1 Thursday to open a doubleheader.Nestor Cortes (5-1) delivered seven tidy innings, DJ LeMahieu also homered and the major league-leading Yankees ensured themselves a series victory over slumping Los Angeles.The Angels lost their seventh straight, their worst skid since an eight-game slide in 2019.Wandy Peralta got his his first save, striking out Ohtani to end it.Ohtani (3-4) was charged with four runs and eight hits in three-plus innings. He had pitched at least five innings in his previous six starts.BLUE JAYS 8, WHITE SOX 3TORONTO (AP) — Alek Manoah pitched into the eighth inning, Teoscar Hernández homered and Toronto extended its winning streak to eight games by beating Chicago. ADVERTISEMENTSantiago Espinal had three hits and three RBIs as the surging Blue Jays won for the 12th time in 15 games. Chicago was swept in the three-game series and has lost six of eight.Manoah (6-1) allowed three runs and six hits, walked one and struck out five in 7 2/3 innings. He’s 9-0 with a 2.12 ERA in 13 career home starts.MLBBroadcaster Kaat uses offensive nickname for Yankees' CortesTaillon loses perfecto in 8th, Yanks rally to sweep AngelsMarlins' Alcantara dominant again, shuts down GiantsYankees' Taillon loses perfecto in 8th on double off gloveJohnny Cueto (0-2) allowed three earned runs and seven hits in six innings for Chicago. He walked none and struck out five.MARLINS 3, GIANTS 0MIAMI (AP) — Sandy Alcantara allowed three hits in seven innings and Miami beat San Francisco. The 26-year-old right-hander walked two and struck out eight, extending his string of recent dominant outings. Alcantara (6-2) has completed at least seven innings in his last five starts and allowed only three earned runs. He lowered his ERA to 1.81.Jon Berti had two hits while Jacob Stallings, Jesús Aguilar and Miguel Rojas drove in runs for the Marlins. Steven Okert relieved Alcantara and pitched a scoreless eighth. Tanner Scott closed with a perfect ninth for his second save.Camilo Doval relieved Giants starter Alex Wood (3-5) after Jorge Soler’s one-out single in the sixth. Wood allowed two runs, four hits, walked two and struck out five. The left-hander has lost his last three decisions.RAYS 3, RANGERS 1ARLINGTON, Texas (AP) — Corey Kluber excelled again at Globe Life Field, pitching six solid innings to give Tampa Bay a win over Texas. Kluber (2-2) allowed one run and four hits, striking out four and walking none. The two-time AL Cy Young Award winner matched his longest outing of the season.Vidal Brujan hit an RBI double in the second inning and Yandy Diaz singled home in the third for Tampa Bay. Ryan Thompson, the fifth Rays reliever, pitched a perfect ninth for his third save in six chances this season.The Rangers have lost two straight after reaching .500 for the first time since May 2021.The lone run off Kluber was a two-out, first-pitch home run by Marcus Semien in the sixth. Taylor Hearn (3-4) allowed all three Rays runs on six hits and four walks. TIGERS 3, TWINS 2DETROIT (AP) — Daz Cameron hit a go-ahead, two-run homer in the eighth inning and a surging Detroit team beat a slumping Minnesota team. ADVERTISEMENTCameron’s 416-foot shot to left-center off Emilio Pagan (1-2) scored Eric Haase, who hit a one-out single for the Tigers.Alex Lange (3-1) gave up two walks and struck out one in the pivotal eighth inning and Gregory Soto closed or his 10th save.AL Central-leading Minnesota, the division’s only team with a winning record, has lost seven of 10 games.Jonathan Schoop hit an RBI single in the first inning to account for seven of Detroit’s 10 runs over two-plus games.REDS 8, NATIONALS 1CINCINNATI (AP) — Reds rookie Graham Ashcraft delivered another gem, throwing seven innings of one-run ball, and Joey Votto and Kyle Farmer hit three-run homers in Cincinnati’s big win over Washington. The 24-year-old Ashcraft (2-0), who got his first major league win last week, reached the upper 90s with his sinker and cutter. He struck out four and allowed just four hits, shutting out the Nationals until Josh Bell hit a one-out solo homer in the seventh inning.Art Warren and Joel Kuhnel each pitched a scoreless inning to finish it for the Reds.Joan Adon (1-9) allowed three runs and six hits through 5 1/3 innings for the Nationals. ___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports