A look at what’s happening around baseball today:___STILL SUSPENDEDYankees third baseman Josh Donaldson will serve a one-game suspension for a remark to White Sox star Tim Anderson about Jackie Robinson when New York opens a home series against Tampa Bay after the ban was upheld on appeal Monday.Major League Baseball special adviser John McHale upheld the penalty after hearing Donaldson’s appeal Thursday, a person familiar with the discipline told The Associated Press. The person spoke Monday on condition of anonymity because McHale’s decision was not announced. Donaldson’s fine was cut in half by McHale to $5,000, the person said.Donaldson’s comments to Anderson were called racist by Chicago manager Tony La Russa. Donaldson’s teammates and manager said he was wrong to make the remark.GOOD NEWS, BAD NEWSThe Braves face Washington trying for their 13th straight win, but they’ll do it without All-Star second baseman Ozzie Albies, who left a 9-5 win over the Nationals on Monday night with a broken left foot.ADVERTISEMENTAlbies fell on his way out of the batter’s box on a groundout to shortstop in the fifth inning. He exited the game, and the team later announced he has a fractured left foot.“Hate it for Ozzie. Hate it for us,” said Braves manager Brian Snitker, who didn’t know how long Albies will be sidelined. “He’ll be fine. He’s young, he’ll heal quick. Like I said, I just hate it for the kid because he loves to play baseball and he’s such a big part of our club. It’s a chance for somebody else to do something good.”MLBBuxton homers vs Seattle again, Twins top Mariners 3-2Blue Jays bring 1-0 series lead over Orioles into game 2Yankees host the Rays on 11-game home win streakAngels bring road skid into matchup against the DodgersThe stretch is Atlanta’s best since it won 14 consecutive games from July 26 to Aug. 9, 2013.IN-N-OUTNationals right-hander Stephen Strasburg is headed back to the injured list after feeling discomfort following a bullpen session.Strasburg has made one start this season, his first since he had surgery for thoracic outlet syndrome last summer.The 33-year-old right-hander had been scheduled to start Tuesday night against the Braves. Instead, manager Dave Martinez announced before Monday night’s game that Strasburg would return to the IL with an unspecified injury.Strasburg, the 2019 World Series MVP, signed a seven-year, $245 million contract to remain with the Nationals after their championship season. He has made eight starts since, going 1-4 with a 6.89 ERA in those games. The three-time All-Star is 113-62 with a 3.24 ERA in his career.TAKE A RIDEWith their dangerous lineup slumping, Tony Gonsolin (7-0, 1.58 ERA) tries to help get the Los Angeles Dodgers back in gear when they host the Los Angeles Angels in the first Freeway Series matchup of the season.Mookie Betts, Freddie Freeman and the Dodgers have dropped three straight and six of eight. They mustered only four runs last weekend in San Francisco as the rival Giants completed a three-game sweep.Noah Syndergaard (4-4, 3.69) pitches for the Angels, who have lost 16 of 18. They expect to get outfielder Taylor Ward (mild right hamstring strain) back from the injured list for this one.SPECIAL COUNSELLADVERTISEMENTBrewers manager Craig Counsell can overtake Phil Garner for the franchise lead in wins when Milwaukee opens a series in Queens against the NL East-leading Mets.Counsell matched Garner with his 563rd victory Sunday against Washington. The win ended Milwaukee’s eight-game skid, its longest since September 2015 — the year Counsell took over from Ron Roenicke.Brewers right-hander Adrian Houser (3-6, 3.92 ERA) is set to face New York righty Chris Bassitt (4-4, 4.35) to begin the three-game set. Bassitt has a 7.62 ERA in his past five starts, spiking his season ERA from 2.34.E-ROD ON LEAVELeft-hander Eduardo Rodriguez informed the Tigers on Monday that he would be away from the team due to personal matters, leaving Detroit without the pitcher it had banked on boosting its turnaround.Rodriguez signed a $77 million, five-year deal with the Tigers last November and is 1-3 with a 4.38 ERA in eight starts. He hasn’t pitched since May 18, when he left a game against Tampa Bay in the first inning with sprained ribs. On June 9, he threw four scoreless innings and struck out nine without a walk in a rehab start for Triple-A Toledo.The Tigers, who made aggressive moves in the offseason in the hopes of competing in the AL Central, have been one of baseball’s worst teams so far this year.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports