TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — Link Jarrett, who led Notre Dame to the College World Series for the first time in 20 years, is Florida State’s new coach.Florida State announced the hiring Friday, three days after the Irish’s season ended in the CWS. Jarrett, voted national coach of the year by the National Collegiate Baseball Writers Association, will be introduced at a news conference Monday.The move was anticipated. Jarrett is a Tallahassee native, FSU graduate and two-time All-America shortstop for the Seminoles (1993-94), and a former assistant (2003).“He’s a Seminole through and through and there is no question that he will dedicate himself to the success of our student-athletes and his team,” athletic director Mike Alford said. “I know he is excited to be returning home and we are just as excited to welcome him and his family.”Florida State fired Mike Martin Jr. on June 10 after the Seminoles failed to advance out of the NCAA regionals for a second straight year. Martin went 77-54 overall in three seasons, and Alford said the program had underachieved.ADVERTISEMENTJarrett went 86-32 in three seasons at Notre Dame, a .729 winning percentage that was second-best in the country. The Irish were a No. 2 regional seed this year and had to travel to Statesboro, Georgia, for regionals, where they swept three games before going to Knoxville and winning a three-game super regional against No. 1 national seed Tennessee.College SportsCollege baseball intent on increasing Black players, coachesMagic take Banchero 1st, Holmgren, Smith follow in NBA draftCanisius recruit gets bail on gun charges; school drops himTop QB recruit Arch Manning tweets that he's going to TexasNotre Dame beat Texas in its CWS opener before losses to Oklahoma and Texas A&M ended its season at 41-17.“I’m humbled to become the next head coach at Florida State,” Jarrett said. “Having the opportunity to come home and lead this storied program is something I take great pride in.”___More AP college sports: https://apnews.com/hub/college-sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25