DETROIT (AP) — The Detroit Pistons selected Purdue’s Jaden Ivey with the No. 5 overall pick in the NBA draft on Thursday night, adding desperately needed talent to a team led by Cade Cunningham.Detroit’s rebuilding plan should get a boost with the addition of the dynamic player with scoring ability. The 6-foot-4, 195-pound Ivey can play point or shooting guard. He averaged 17.3 points last season and made 46% of his shots overall and 36% beyond the 3-point arc for the Boilermakers.The day before the draft, the Pistons agreed to trade Jerami Grant to Portland for the No. 36 pick overall this year and a first-round pick in 2025. The Olympic gold medalist was due to make $21 million and Detroit didn’t appear to be interested in giving him another contract to be part of its latest rebuild.The Pistons cleared cap space with the trade, giving them about $44 million available this summer to potentially be a major player in free agency. They also lost a player, who averaged nearly 21 points over the previous two seasons.ADVERTISEMENTIvey will have opportunities to fill part of the scoring void left by Grant’s departure with shots set up by Cunningham, who was drafted No. 1 overall last year and was unanimously voted to the NBA All-Rookie first team.NBAIndiana Pacers take Arizona's Bennedict Mathurin at No. 6Magic take Banchero 1st, Holmgren, Smith follow in NBA draftAP SportlightKings nab Iowa's versatile Keegan Murray with 4th pickWhile the Pistons hit on their pick last year, they may have missed in 2020 with the selection of guard Killian Hayes at No. 7 overall. Hayes has averaged 6.8 points and 4.5 assists over two seasons.Detroit needs Ivey to pan out after winning just 23 games, finishing ahead of only Houston and Orlando in the league last year. The Pistons have made the playoffs just twice over the last 13 seasons, following an eight-year run in which they won a third NBA title, fell a win short of repeating and advanced to six straight conference finals.___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports