MIAMI (AP) — Jazz Chisholm Jr. homered twice, including a grand slam, and had a career-high six RBIs as the Miami Marlins beat the Washington Nationals 12-2 on Tuesday night.Nick Fortes and Jorge Soler also went deep while Avisaíl García had three hits for the Marlins.Rookie right-hander Edward Cabrera allowed one run in six innings. In his second start since being promoted from Triple-A last week, Cabrera (2-0) limited Washington to two hits, walked two, struck out four and hit a batter.The Marlins have scored 26 times in Cabrera’s first two outings. They beat Colorado 14-1 on June 1.Chisholm snapped a 2-for-29 skid with his second-inning grand slam. He drove a 3-0 pitch off Joan Adon (1-10) over the wall in center to make it 5-0.Homers from Fortes and Soler keyed another five-run inning in the fourth.Fortes’ three-run blast ended Adon’s outing after three-plus innings. Andrés Machado relieved Adon and allowed Garrett Cooper’s one-out double and Soler’s two-run shot.ADVERTISEMENTChisholm hit his 10th homer of the season in the fifth, a two-run shot off Machado. It was the second multi-homer game of Chisholm’s career.Cabrera’s string of 11 scoreless innings since being called up ended on Luis García’s solo homer in the sixth.MLBLEADING OFF: Angels cut ties with Maddon, Correa near returnAngels fire manager Joe Maddon amid 12-game losing streakHeredia's go-ahead HR backs Acuña's 2 shots, Braves edge A'sThis Date in BaseballAdon allowed eight runs on seven hits and two walks. The right-hander became the first major league pitcher with double-digit losses this season.CAN WE TALK?Marlins players and coaches met for 90 minutes prior to the game. Miami started the season 12-8 but went 7-19 in May. The Marlins began Tuesday fourth in the NL East, 13 1/2 games behind the first-place New York Mets.ROSTER MOVESThe Nationals reinstated utility player Ehire Adrianza from the 60-day injured list and optioned infielder Lucius Fox to Triple-A Rochester. ... RHP Victor Arano (left knee strain) was placed on the 15-day injured list and utility player Dee Strange-Gordon was reinstated from the paternity list.TRAINER’S ROOMNationals: RHP Stephen Strasburg will make his return on Thursday. He is recovering from thoracic outlet syndrome surgery and has not pitched since June 1, 2021.Marlins: OF Jesús Sánchez exited in the second inning because of right upper back tightness. ... 3B/OF Brian Anderson (lower back spasms) underwent an MRI Monday and has a follow-up visit with a spine specialist Wednesday.UP NEXTNationals RHP Josiah Gray (6-4, 4.71 ERA) will start the second game of the series on Wednesday. Ace Sandy Alcantara (6-2, 1.81) starts for the Marlins.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/mlb and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports