ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Michael Wacha pitched a three-hitter for his first shutout in five years and the streaking Boston Red Sox beat Los Angeles 1-0 on Monday night to hand the Angels their 12th straight defeat.Christian Vazquez had an RBI single in the second inning and the Red Sox won their sixth in a row.The Angels matched their longest slide in a single season, last done to end the 1988 schedule.Wacha, who hadn’t lasted more than six innings in his first season with the Red Sox, outpitched Noah Syndergaard, who went six strong innings for the Angels.Angels star Mike Trout had a first-inning single off Wacha to end an 0-for-26 drought, the longest hitless run of his career, but the Los Angeles offense could muster little else in the opener of a seven-game homestand.Wacha (4-1) gave up one walk and had six strikeouts in his second scoreless outing against the Angels this season. The former St. Louis Cardinals standout went 5 2/3 shutout innings against Los Angeles at home on May 3.ADVERTISEMENTSyndergaard (4-4) gave up one run on five hits over six innings with one walk and three strikeouts. The former New York Mets star matched up against Wacha on May 3, giving up three runs on eight hits over seven innings while taking the loss.MLBBenches clear in 9th, Servais tossed as Mariners beat AstrosLEADING OFF: Twins host Yankees with tattered rotationAngels' Mike Trout singles to end 0-for-26 slideGreene retires 20 straight in rain-shortened win for RedsThe Angels appeared to be in business in the first inning, getting consecutive one-out singles from Shohei Ohtani and Trout. But Ohtani was doubled off second base to end the threat after Jared Walsh lined out to first baseman Franchy Cordero.The Red Sox used Alex Verdugo’s speed to score in the second. Verdugo singled to lead off the inning and was attempting to steal second with two outs when Vazquez singled toward the gap in left-center. Trout cut off the ball but Verdugo scored anyway ahead of the throw home.Wacha threw a pair of 96 mph fastballs while striking out Ohtani in the sixth inning and a 94 mph fastball while striking out Jo Adell to end the eighth.He completed the outing by getting Ohtani on a grounder to second base before pumping his fist and then greeting catcher Vazquez near the first-base line.Wacha threw 105 pitches while lowering his ERA to 1.99 on the season.TRAINER’S ROOMRed Sox: LHP Chris Sale remains on schedule to throw a bullpen Tuesday in Florida before facing hitters in batting practice Friday. … LHP James Paxton played catch after throwing from 120 feet over the weekend and is in line to throw off a mound by next week, according to manager Alex Cora.Angels: 3B Anthony Rendon (wrist), eligible to come off the injured list, fielded grounders before batting practice but there is no timetable for his return.UP NEXTRed Sox: RHP Garrett Whitlock (2-1, 3.02 ERA), who had a career-best nine strikeouts against the Angels on May 4, will start Tuesday’s game in Anaheim.Angels: Had not yet announced a starter for Tuesday.