A look at what’s happening around the majors on Friday:___WHAT A START!Phillies interim manager Rob Thomson tries to extend his unbeaten run when Arizona visits Citizens Bank Park.Thomson is 6-0 since taking over after manager Joe Girardi was fired last Friday.Thomson is off to the best start by a first-time major league manager since Boston’s Joe Morgan won his first 12 games in 1988, the Elias Sports Bureau said.Overall, Philadelphia has won a season-high seven in a row and improved to 28-29. Bryce Harper and Odúbel Herrera both homered for the second straight day as the Phils beat the NL Central-leading Brewers 8-3 Thursday.Kyle Gibson (3-2, 4.40 ERA) starts for the Phillies against Zac Gallen (4-1, 2.40) and the Diamondbacks.TOUGH BREAKReds catcher Tyler Stephenson is expected to miss four to six weeks after his right thumb was broken by a foul ball.The 25-year-old Stephenson was injured in the fourth inning of Cincinnati’s 5-4 loss to Arizona on Thursday. He already had missed time this season because of a concussion.ADVERTISEMENTStephenson is hitting .305 and there was speculation that he would be the Reds’ representative in the All-Star Game.“I have never had anything broken or fractured before,” he said. “I didn’t know what to expect. I knew it didn’t feel good. It is tough, but it will be fine. Frustrating. You live and learn. You have to find the positives.”MLBFried, Braves beat Pirates 3-1 for 8th straight winPhils 6-0 under Thomson, a new manager's best since '88After 2-strike intentional walk, Muncy powers DodgersTwins start with 3 HRs, Yanks' Cole gives up career-high 5FAMILIAR FOEDodgers righty Walker Buehler (6-2, 3.84 ERA) aims to reverse a recent rut when he starts in San Francisco.The two-time All-Star has allowed nine runs in 8 1/3 innings over his last two outings and was chased after 2 1/3 innings by the Mets last Saturday in the shortest start of his big league career. Buehler worked on delivery issues in a bullpen session in Chicago on Wednesday.Buehler is 7-1 with a 2.55 ERA in his career against the NL West rival Giants.RETURNINGMets right-hander Tylor Megill is expected to rejoin the rotation and start on the road against the Los Angeles Angels.Megill hasn’t pitched since May 11 while recovering from a biceps injury. He is 4-2 with a 4.41 ERA in seven starts this season.The 26-year-old returns to the NL East leaders while aces Max Scherzer and Jacob deGrom remain on the injured list.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports