A look at what’s happening around the majors today:___MACHADO INJUREDThe Padres will see how star third baseman Manny Machado is feeling, a day after he sprained his left ankle while taking a tumble running out a grounder.It’s uncertain how long Machado will be sidelined.Machado, who is hitting .328 with 12 home runs and 46 RBIs, was hurt Sunday in the first inning of an 8-3 loss at Colorado. The Padres said X-rays were negative.“Fortunately, when he felt himself slip, he was able to shift his weight to the right and probably avoid more serious damage,” acting manager Ryan Flaherty said. “All in all, it’s as good as it could be.”“We have to wait for some of the swelling to go down and he gets treated,” he said. “We’ll probably have a better idea of that tomorrow.”Machado was injured after hitting a slow comebacker. He sprinted down the line and stretched his left leg toward first base as the throw arrived, but his cleat appeared to slip across the top of the bag and he fell to the ground, his leg buckling beneath him.ADVERTISEMENTCENTRAL SHOWDOWN Cardinals right-hander Miles Mikolas (5-4, 2.62 ERA) is scheduled to start when St. Louis opens a four-game series in Milwaukee — the teams are tied for the NL Central lead.MLBRangers begin 2-game series with the PhilliesReds play the Dodgers in first of 3-game seriesNew York Yankees and Tampa Bay Rays meet in game 2 of seriesVaughn leads White Sox against the Blue Jays following 4-hit gameMikolas came within one strike of pitching a no-hitter against Pittsburgh in his last start. He gave up Cal Mitchell’s double that was just over the head of center fielder Harrison Bader with two outs in the ninth inning at Busch Stadium.Reigning NL Cy Young Award winner Corbin Burnes (4-4, 2.52) is set to go for the Brewers.CRUZ CONTROLThe Pirates plan to promote 6-foot-7 shortstop Oneil Cruz from Triple-A Indianapolis before their game against the Cubs.The 23-year-old Cruz ranks among the game’s most exciting prospects and made his major league debut last September. Pittsburgh sent him to Triple-A to begin this season, infuriating many fans who perceived the demotion as an effort to delay Cruz’s free agency down the road. Cruz struggled at the start of the year with Indianapolis but has been better of late, hitting .233 with nine homers, 11 stolen bases and a .761 OPS overall.Cruz will join the club a day after fellow rookie Jack Suwinski hit his third homer of the game in the ninth inning, giving the Pirates a walk-off victory over the Giants. Suwinski is the first rookie to cap a three-homer game with a game-ending shot, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.SLAMMIN’ STARTMarlins outfielder Jerar Encarnación tries to follow up a historic MLB debut in Miami’s series finale against the Mets.The 24-year-old became the first player since at least 1901 with a grand slam and an outfield assist in his debut Sunday during a 6-2 win over New York. He also stole a base in the ninth inning.There’s a good chance he’ll be back in the lineup against Mets left-hander David Peterson -- assuming Peterson is around to make the start. New York manager Buck Showalter said the team is making contingency plans because Peterson’s wife is expected to go into labor within the next few days.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/tag/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports