A look at what’s happening around the majors on Thursday:___GOING MY WAY?The Yankees and Astros will meet in a one-game series between AL division leaders at Minute Maid Park — it’s a makeup of a matchup postponed by the lockout.Both teams were on New York-to-Houston flights after wins Wednesday afternoon in the Big Apple. Aaron Judge and Giancarlo Stanton homered at Yankee Stadium in a 5-3 victory over Oakland; Justin Verlander and the Astros beat the NL East-leading Mets 2-0 at Citi Field.Houston left fielder Yordan Álvarez and shortstop Jeremy Peña were hurt when they collided while running down a popup. Álvarez left on a cart, sitting up, and Peña walked back to the dugout. Both were walking in the clubhouse postgame and manager Dusty Baker said the team was awaiting medical reports.Luis Garcia (5-5, 3.68 ERA), who beat the Yankees in his last outing, starts for Houston against Luis Severino (4-2, 3.38 ERA). The clubs split a four-game series in the Bronx last weekend.ADVERTISEMENTIt’ll be a quick trip to Texas for the Yankees — they begin a series Friday night in Cleveland. Houston gets to stay home and welcome Mike Trout, Shohei Ohtani and the Angels over the weekend.NO PLACE LIKE HOMETrea Turner, Freddie Freeman and the NL West-leading Dodgers open their longest homestand of the season, an 11-game stay against San Diego, Colorado and the Cubs.MLBRays put LH Raley, RH Thompson on restricted listCOVID-19 at Wimbledon: 3 top-20 men out after positive testsAP SportlightAP SportlightJoe Musgrove (8-1, 2.12 ERA) starts for the second-place Padres against Mitch White (1-1, 4.25). Musgrove absorbed his only loss this year in his previous start, giving up six runs in six innings to Philadelphia.Los Angeles is 20-12 at Dodger Stadium. The Padres are 24-15 on the road.SO LONG, FOR A WHILELuis Arraez and the first-place Minnesota Twins wrap up a five-game series in Cleveland with the last of eight matchups in a 10-day span between the top two teams in the AL Central. After this one, they won’t see each other again until September.Chris Archer (2-3, 3.14 ERA) starts for Minnesota against 2020 AL Cy Young Award winner Shane Bieber (3-4, 3.07).CHECK HIMThe Brewers will see how center fielder Jonathan Davis is feeling, a day after he crashed headfirst into the padded wall at Tampa Bay making a tremendous catch.Davis ran at full speed and jumped back to snag Randy Arozarena’s drive in the second inning Wednesday. He stayed down for several minutes holding his back and exited the game the next inning with lower back and rib cage discomfort.“Spectacular, scary ... those two words,” Milwaukee manager Craig Counsell said. “He’s doing pretty good. He is sore. He’s a good center fielder, so I did think he had a chance, but where the ball ended up and how hard it was hit ... for him to get there and put his health and body at risk is brilliant.”The Brewers open a series at Pittsburgh.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports