Nonfiction 1. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)2. Scars and Stripes by Tim Kennedy and Nick Palmisciano, narrated by Tim Kennedy (Simon & Schuster Audio)3. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 4. Finding Me by Viola Davis, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)5. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)6. Happy-Go-Lucky by David Sedaris, narrated by the author (Little, Brown & Company)7. Born a Crime by Trevor Noah, performed by the author (Audible Studios)8. Endure by Cameron Hanes, narrated by the author, David Goggins, and Joe Rogan (Macmillan Audio)9. If You Tell by Gregg Olsen, narrated by Karen Peakes (Brilliance Audio)10. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)Fiction1. Match Game by Craig Alanson, narrated by R.C. Bray (Podium Audio)ADVERTISEMENT2. Where the Crawdads Sing by Delia Owens, narrated by Cassandra Campbell (Penguin Audio)3. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)4. Sparring Partners by John Grisham, narrated by Jeff Daniels, Ethan Hawke, January LaVoy and the author (Random House Audio)EntertainmentChris Hemsworth finds a rich groove in 'Spiderhead'K-pop supergroup BTS says it's making time for solo projects'Squid Game' adapted as non-fatal reality series for NetflixJulie Andrews at AFI honor: 'I've been the most lucky lady'5. The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo by Taylor Jenkins Reid, narrated by Alma Cuervo, Julia Whelan and Robin Miles (Simon & Schuster Audio)6. Neverwhere by Neil Gaiman, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)7. Tom Clancy Zero Hour by Don Bentley, narrated by Scott Brick (Random House Audio)8. House of Blades by Will Wight, performed by Travis Baldree (Audible Studios)9. Rotten to the Core by T E Kinsey, narrated by Elizabeth Knowelden (Brilliance Audio)10. Farilane by Michael J. Sullivan, performed by Tim Gerard Reynolds, Michael J. Sullivan and Robin Sullivan (Audible Studios)