ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (AP) — Jake Burger had a key hit for the second consecutive day and the Chicago White Sox hung on to a large early lead to beat the Tampa Bay Rays 6-5 on Sunday.Burger, who had a go-ahead, two-run pinch-hit homer in the eighth inning of the White Sox’s 3-2 win on Saturday, had a two-run double during Chicago’s four-run first off Ryan Yarbrough (0-2). Yasmani Grandal drove in two more on a check-swing opposite-field single to right in the first, and then Andrew Vaughn had an RBI double and Luis Robert added a run-scoring single in the second to make it 6-0.But the Rays didn’t go away, starting with Isaac Paredes hitting a solo homer in the fifth before a four-run sixth pulled Tampa Bay within 6-5. Yandy Díaz opened the sixth with a single and Ji-Man Choi reached when Grandal was charged with an error for mishandling a throw from shortstop Danny Mendick. Then Harold Ramirez hit a sacrifice fly and Randy Arozarena had an RBI triple before Mike Zunino connected on a two-out, two-run homer.ADVERTISEMENTWhite Sox starter Lucas Giolito (4-2) gave up five runs, two earned, and eight hits over six innings. Liam Hendriks, the third Chicago reliever, worked the ninth to get his 16th save in 19 chances.MLBArráez has 4 hits, Sánchez HRs as Twins beat Blue Jays 8-6Walton's slam, Junis' solid outing lead Giants past MarlinsNats catcher Ruiz ends 5-4 win over Reds with pickoff at 1stSuwinski gets 3 hits, Pirates blank Diamondbacks 3-0Three of Tampa Bay’s four runs in the sixth were unearned. The Rays dropped a season-high eight games behind the AL East-leading New York Yankees. Yarbrough allowed six runs and eight hits over 68 pitches in 1 2/3 innings.Chicago, which won for the fourth time in 11 games, got seven hits in 3 2/3 innings off reliever Ralph Garza Jr., who entered in fourth. TRAINER’S ROOMWhite Sox: RHP Lance Lynn (right knee) is scheduled to make his third rehab start Wednesday with Triple-A Charlotte. It is possible he could rejoin the White Sox after the outing.Rays: Reliever Andrew Kittredge (back tightness) was reinstated from the 15-day IL.UP NEXTWhite Sox: Right-hander Michael Kopech (1-2) will go against Los Angeles Dodgers righty Mitch White (1-1) on Tuesday night.Rays: Lefty Jeffrey Springs (2-2) and St. Louis right-hander Dakota Hudson (4-2) are Tuesday night’s scheduled starters at Tampa Bay.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports