DETROIT (AP) — Lourdes Gurriel Jr., George Springer and Bo Bichette homered during a four-run second inning, Jose Berrios pitched eight strong innings and the Toronto Blue Jays routed the Detroit Tigers 10-1 on Friday night.Springer reached base four times while scoring three runs and knocking in a pair. Gurriel and Bichette added run-scoring doubles and the Blue Jays had eight extra-base hits during the first six innings. Toronto has won 12 of its last 15 games, scoring six or more runs in 11 of those victories.Berrios (5-2) allowed one run and five hits. He struck out five.Detroit starter Elvin Rodriguez (0-2) was pounded for eight runs and eight hits in 4 1/3 innings. Pinch-hitter Willi Castro ended Berrios’ shutout bid with a bases-loaded sacrifice fly in the eighth.The game was delayed 26 minutes during the third inning by rain.Bichette and Alejandro Kirk had RBI doubles in the first. Toronto’s home run outburst in the second increased its lead to 6-0.ADVERTISEMENTSantiago Espinal’s run-scoring single and Gurriel’s RBI double made it 8-0 in the fifth. Vladimir Guerrero Jr. had an RBI double and Kirk supplied a run-scoring single in the sixth.TRAINER’S ROOMTigers: RHP Casey Mize will have Tommy John surgery, manager A.J. Hinch announced prior to the game. Mize, the top pick of the 2018 June amateur draft, has been on the injured list with a right elbow sprain since April 15 after making two starts this season. Mize’s ulnar collateral ligament in his elbow is still intact, but a specialist determined the ligament had stretched to the point where it has lost elasticity and functionality.MLBGuardians rally for 3 in 9th, send A's to 10th straight lossMiami's López leaves after being hit on wrist by comebackerNationals go deep, extend Brewers' losing streak to 7 gamesStrider fans 8, Braves top Pirates 4-2 for 9th straight winROSTER MOVESBlue Jays: LHP Andrew Vasquez was placed on the 15-day IL with a right ankle sprain. RHP Jeremy Beasley was recalled from Triple-A Buffalo.Tigers: OF Robbie Grossman (neck strain) was activated from the 10-day injured list. He was removed in the eighth inning on Friday after fouling a ball off his leg. OF Daz Cameron was placed on the COVID IL after being a close contact of someone who tested positive.UP NEXTBlue Jays: RHP Kevin Gausman (5-4, 2.78 ERA) will make his 12th start on Saturday. He had his shortest outing of the season against Minnesota on Sunday, allowing five runs (three earned) and nine hits in 3 2/3 innings. He’s 2-1 with a 3.66 ERA in eight career starts against Detroit.Tigers: RHP Beau Brieske (0-5, 5.93 ERA) is still seeking his first major league victory, though he deserved a better fate in his last start. He held the powerful New York Yankees lineup to two runs on three hits and struck out seven in six innings on Saturday.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports