HOBBS, N.M. (AP) — Authorities are trying to determine why a pickup truck crossed into the opposite lane on a darkened, two-lane West Texas highway before colliding head-on with a van, killing nine people including six New Mexico university students and a golf coach, as well as a 13-year-old boy.The University of the Southwest students, including one from Portugal and one from Mexico, and the coach were returning from a golf tournament. Also killed in Tuesday evening’s fiery crash was a man in the pickup with the boy, while two Canadian students were hospitalized in critical condition.The National Transportation Safety Board was sending an investigative team to the crash site in Texas’ Andrews County, about 30 miles (50 kilometers) east of the New Mexico state line.ADVERTISEMENTThe golf team was traveling in a 2017 Ford Transit van that was towing a box trailer when it collided with the truck, and both vehicles burst into flames, according to NTSB spokesman Eric Weiss.SportsReport: Griner's arrest extended to May 19 by Russian courtShiffrin wins overall World Cup title, places 2nd in super-GAP source: Freeman, Dodgers agree to $162 million, 6-yr dealCurry injures left foot in Warriors blowout loss to CelticsHe said the vehicles collided on a two-lane asphalt highway where the speed limit is 75 mph (120 kph), though investigators have not yet determined how fast either vehicle was traveling.The Texas Department of Public Safety identified the deceased as: Golf coach Tyler James, 26, of Hobbs, New Mexico; and players Mauricio Sanchez, 19, of Mexico; Travis Garcia, 19, of Pleasanton, Texas; Jackson Zinn, 22, of Westminster, Colorado; Karisa Raines, 21, of Fort Stockton, Texas; Laci Stone, 18, of Nocona, Texas; and Tiago Sousa, 18, of Portugal.Also killed were Henrich Siemens, 38, of Seminole County, Texas, and an unidentified 13-year-old boy who were in the 2007 Dodge 2500 pickup. Texas Department of Public Safety Sgt. Steven Blanco said Thursday that investigators have not yet confirmed who was driving either vehicle because of the severity of the crash and the fire that occurred afterward.Critically injured aboard the van were Canadian students Dayton Price, 19, of Mississauga, Ontario, and Hayden Underhill, 20, of Amherstview, Ontario. Both were taken by helicopter to the University Medical Center in Lubbock, about 110 miles (180 kilometers) to the northeast.Underhill’s brother Drew said their parents, Ken and Wendy, were on a plane headed to Texas. “Hockey was a big part of life for a while, but his true passion is golf,” Drew Underhill said. “From a small town in Ontario, he’s doing OK.”The Mexican Federation of Golf posted an online note of condolence to the loved ones of Mauricio Sanchez.Stone’s mother wrote of her loss on Facebook Wednesday.ADVERTISEMENT“She has been an absolute ray of sunshine during this short time on earth,” Chelsi Stone said in a post. “… We will never be the same after this and we just don’t understand how this happened to our amazing, beautiful, smart, joyful girl.”Stone graduated in 2021 from Nocona High School, where she played golf, volleyball and softball. She was a freshman majoring in global business management, according to her biography on the golf team’s website. James’ mother, June James, said she knew little about the circumstances of the collision. He coached the men and the women. “We don’t know what happened. It’s a huge investigation. We don’t have any idea as of yet,” James said during a brief phone interview. Team member Jasmin Collum had been scheduled to play but at the last minute decided instead to visit her parents in Houston, her mother said. “We knew all those people on board,” Tonya Collum said. “Basically the whole team is gone or in the hospital.”The University of the Southwest is a private, Christian college located in Hobbs, New Mexico, near the state line with Texas. A memorial was set up Wednesday at the course near campus where the team practices. There were flowers, golf balls and a handmade sign with a cross and the initials USW.“It’s the very least we could to for the players, and of course Coach James,” said Rockwind Community Links Manager Ben Kirkes. “These kids were great kids and they were great, great community members,” said Kirkes.New Mexico Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham said on Facebook that she is “deeply saddened” by the loss of life. “This is a terrible accident. As we await additional information from authorities, my prayers are with the community and the loved ones of all those involved,” she said.Texas Gov. Greg Abbott also expressed sympathy.“We grieve with the loved ones of the individuals whose lives were horrifically taken too soon in this fatal vehicle crash near Andrews last night,” Abbott said.The teams had been taking part in a golf tournament at Midland College, about 315 miles (505 kilometers) west of Dallas.“We are still learning the details about the accident but we are devastated and deeply saddened to learn about the loss of our students’ lives and their coach,” University President Quint Thurman said in a statement.The university said on Twitter that counseling and religious services would be available on campus.Midland College said Wednesday’s play would be canceled because of the crash. Eleven schools were participating in the event.“All of the players and their coaches from the participating schools met together early this morning,” Midland College athletic director Forrest Allen said in a statement Wednesday. “We were all shocked to learn of this tragedy, and our thoughts and prayers are with USW as they grieve this terrible loss.”___This story has been updated to correct the last name of Henrich Siemens and to remove reference to him as the driver of the pickup truck, because authorities have not said who was driving.___Bleed reported from Little Rock, Arkansas, and Snow reported from Phoenix. Associated Press writers Jake Bleiberg and Jamie Stengle in Dallas, and Rob Gillies in Toronto contributed to this report. ___Attanasio is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative. Report for America is a nonprofit national service program that places journalists in local newsrooms to report on under-covered issues. Follow Attanasio on Twitter.