SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) — Julius Randle hit eight 3-pointers and scored 17 of his career-high 46 points in the third quarter as the New York Knicks rallied from a 20-point deficit and beat the Sacramento Kings 131-115 on Monday night.One night after beating the Los Angeles Clippers in a win fueled mostly by New York’s younger players, Randle rallied the Knicks with a phenomenal shooting display in the second half. He made 12 of 17 shots after halftime, going 7 for 11 from beyond the arc, and finished with 10 rebounds.RJ Barrett had 29 points, eight rebounds and six assists to help the Knicks to their second consecutive win after seven straight losses. Immanuel Quickley added 27 points.Domantas Sabonis had 19 points and 13 rebounds for the Kings before being ejected in the fourth quarter after receiving double technicals. De’Aaron Fox scored 24 points, and Harrison Barnes had 23.ADVERTISEMENTHeld to 48 points in the first half, the Knicks nearly doubled their output in the third quarter when they outscored the Kings 44-24. Randle opened the period with a 3-pointer and then made two more to give New York its first lead. Quickley scored four straight points, Fournier added two free throws and Randle made two free throws and a layup to put New York ahead 92-87.Sacramento KingsRandle nets career-best 46, Knicks rally past Kings 131-115Sacramento takes on New York following Fox's 44-point showingMavericks overcome 19-point deficit to beat Kings 114-113Mavs' Doncic sits vs. Kings with toe injuryThe Kings got within 96-94 early in the fourth, before Quickley made a 3-pointer and Barrett scored on a layup. Randle followed with consecutive 3s to cap the 11-0 run.The Knicks had lost 11 of 13.The game was paused in the third quarter when Cam Reddish crashed hard to the court on his right shoulder and was taken to the locker room, further depleting an already shortened Knicks roster.TIP-INS Knicks: Evan Fournier had 15 points and made three 3-pointers to give him 187 this season, third-most in franchise history. … Taj Gibson had five points and eight rebounds after sitting out Sunday because of an illness. … Jericho Sims picked up three fouls in his first six minutes on the court. … Obi Toppin (strained left hamstring) was held out a third consecutive game.Kings: Alvin Gentry was whistled for his first technical foul this season in the second quarter. … Richaun Holmes (personal reasons), Moe Harkless (right ankle sprain) and Jeremy Lamb (left hip soreness) did not play.UP NEXTKnicks: Continue their seven-game trip against the Mavericks on Wednesday. New York has won four straight in Dallas.Kings: Host the Nuggets on Wednesday. Denver is 3-0 against Sacramento this season.___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/tag/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports