DALLAS (AP) — Artemi Panarin had a goal and two of his three assists during New York’s four-goal first period and the Rangers beat the Dallas Stars 7-4 on Saturday night.Greg McKegg, Adam Fox, Mika Zibanejad, Patrik Nemeth, Barclay Goodrow and Ryan Strome also scored for the Rangers, who have won four of six. K’Andre Miller and Dryden each had two assists and Igor Shesterkin stopped 30 shots.Esa Lindell had a goal and an assist, and Tyler Seguin, Jason Robertson and Joe Pavelski also scored for Dallas, which has lost two straight after a four-game win streak. Roope Hintz and John Klingberg each had two assists and Jake Oettinger finished with 22 saves on 28 shots.The Rangers spotted Dallas a two-goal lead less than five minutes into the game, then scored four times in a span of 5:05 for a 4-2 lead.McKegg, Fox and Zibanejad also scored in the first period. Zibanejad’s goal came on the only power play of the first period. It lasted just 7 seconds before Panarin won the faceoff and Zibanejad blasted a slap shot off the left goalpost and past Oettinger. ADVERTISEMENTNemeth scored in the second period for the Rangers. Goodrow and Strome — with an empty-netter — had third-period goals after the Stars had come within one.NHLDaws makes 33 saves, Devils beat Ducks 2-1 in shootoutMartinook breaks late tie, Hurricanes beat Flyers 3-1 Panarin keys 4-goal 1st period, Rangers beat Stars 7-4Toews, Jones each score twice, Blackhawks beat Senators 6-3Lindell got the Stars on the scoreboard 49 seconds into the game and then assisted on Seguin’s tip-in goal at 4:53 for the early 2-0 lead. Panarin’s three assists gave him 51 for the season. He has 16 goals and leads the Rangers with 67 points. Trailing 4-2 after 20 minutes, Dallas regrouped in the second period to put 13 shots on goal, including Robertson’s eighth goal in the last five games on a power play. Nemeth was awarded a goal after a video review showed that his shot from a scramble sin front had crossed the goal line. That restored the Rangers’ two-goal lead with 1:40 remaining in the middle period.Pavelski’s tip-in at 8:09 of the third pulled the Stars to 5-4. It was his 23rd of the season.Goodrow scored with 5:53 remaining and Strome’s empty-netter with 1:37 left capped the scoring.Oettinger allowed a career-high of six goals in his third season. Dallas was playing without veteran goalie Braden Holtby, out because of a lower-body injury. To back up Oettinger, the Stars recalled pro rookie Adam Scheel from Texas of the AHL.NOTES: Panarin reached 50 assists for the fourth time in his seven NHL seasons. ... Seguin was playing in his 800th career game. ... Lindell’s assist on the goal by Seguin was the 100th of the defenseman’s career. ... On a night with traffic in front of the net, each team scored twice on tip-ins.UP NEXTRangers: Begin a two-game homestand on Tuesday against Anaheim.Stars: Visit Toronto on Tuesday in the first of a four-game trip to begin a stretch of nine of 11 games on the road.