Russian forces are pounding Ukrainian cities and edging closer to the capital, Kyiv,  in a relentless bombardment that keeps deepening the humanitarian crisis in this war, now in its third week. Still,  a narrow diplomatic channel remains open, with Ukraine saying Russia seemed to soften its stand in talks aimed at halting the fighting. Russia is also circulating a proposed U.N. Security Council resolution proposing a cease fire to evacuate civilians and to create safe passage for humanitarian aid. Ukranian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is asking for more international help, those close to Russian President Vladimir Putin are facing more sanctions, two more journalists were killed while covering the war and some people are traveling into Ukraine to help its citizens.ADVERTISEMENTHere are some key things to know about the conflict:WHAT IS HAPPENING IN AND AROUND KYIV?Fighting for Kyiv has intensified, with artillery fire echoing through the city. Russia launched a flurry of strikes that early Tuesday blew out windows and ignited a huge fire in a 15-story apartment building apartment in western Kyiv, spurring a frantic rescue effort.Russia-Ukraine warRussia-Ukraine war: Key things to know about the conflictEXPLAINER: How plausible is Chinese military aid for Russia?Ukraine war recalls trauma for survivors of Aleppo siegeUkraine: Tone improves in Russia talks even as Kyiv is hitUkrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said barrages also hit four multi-story buildings, killing dozens of people.Explosions around the city caused significant structural damage, with shockwaves from a blast tearing through the entrance of a downtown subway station that has been used as a bomb shelter.FOREIGN LEADERS SHOW THEIR SUPPORT FOR UKRAINEThe leaders of Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia  traveled to Kyiv Tuesday by train in a show of support for Ukraine, despite the potential risks of traveling in a war zone. Janez Jansa of Slovenia described the visit as a way to send a message that Ukraine is a European country that deserves to be accepted into the EU one day. WHAT IS HAPPENING IN MARIUPOL, OTHER CITIES?After days of relentless Russian shelling of encircled Mariupol, 2,000 civilian vehicles left the port city along a so-called humanitarian corridor — a route that runs west for more than 260 kilometers (160 miles) to the Ukraine-held city of Zaporizhzhia. Another 2,000 vehicles were ready to leave, the city council said.ADVERTISEMENTMariupol had a population of 430,000 before the war. The strategically located port city has been under fire for more than two weeks. Local officials estimate the siege has killed more than 2,300 people and said it had left residents desperate for food, water, heat and medicine.Russian forces unleashed scores of new artillery strikes on downtown Kharkiv in the country’s east, hitting the city’s historical center, including its main marketplace. Rescuers were pulling the bodies of dead civilians from destroyed apartment buildings.FOX NEWS JOURNALISTS KILLEDTwo journalists working for Fox News were killed and one was injured when the vehicle they were traveling in was hit by gunfire on Monday near Kyiv, the network said Tuesday.Video journalist Pierre Zakrzewski, 55, died  along with Ukranian journalist Oleksandra “Sasha” Kuvshynova, 24. Another reporter, Benjamin Hall, was injured.The London-based Zakrzewski had covered conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria and played a key role last year in getting Fox’s freelancers and their families out of Afghanistan after the U.S. withdrawal, the network said. Kuvshynova was helping the Fox crews navigate the country.The attack happened a day after documentary filmmaker  Brent Renaud was killed when Russian forces opened fire on his vehicle.WHAT HAS THE AP DIRECTLY WITNESSED OR CONFIRMED?Flames gutted an apartment building in the Svyatoshynskyi district of western Kyiv as emergency workers climbed ladders to rescue people. Thick, dark smoke choked the air. A firefighter at the scene confirmed one person had died and that several have been rescued alive — but more remained trapped inside. A young woman sobbed outside the charred building, where shocked residents assessed the damage.“People are dying, and the worst thing is that children are dying,” said Andriy, a firefighter at the scene who would only give his first name, before heading back into the burning building. A small but growing number of people are heading back to Ukraine to help, from foreign volunteers to Ukranian expatriate men and more recently women.“I will go back and help. I am a health worker, so the hospitals need help,” said Iryna Orel, 50, lugging her luggage as she boarded a train from Przemysl, Poland, to Lviv in western Ukraine. “And I will stay until the end.”WHAT IS THE STATUS OF DIPLOMACY IN THE RUSSIA-UKRAINE WAR? Russia has circulated a  proposed U.N. Security Council resolution demanding protection for civilians “in vulnerable situations” in Ukraine along with safe passage for humanitarian aid and people seeking to leave the country, without mentioning Russia’s responsibility for the war. The draft could be put to a vote Wednesday, according to a Russian diplomat who was not authorized to speak publicly about the private discussions.Ukrainian negotiators met with their Russian counterparts again, with Ukraine saying Russia appears to be softening its stand. Ukranian presidential aide Ihor Zhovkva said Tuesday’s talks were more constructive and Russia had stopped asking Ukraine to surrender.Ukranian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, in an emotional speech, asked the Canadian Parliament and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to help enact a no-fly zone over Ukraine.U.S. President Joe Biden is scheduled to travel to Brussels next week for talks with NATO and European leaders to discuss the Russian invasion of Ukraine, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Tuesday.___ Associated Press Writer Edith Lederer contributed to this report.WHAT ABOUT SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIA? The U.S. added more sanctions Tuesday, whose targets include senior Russian military officials. The U.S. also placed additional sanctions on the leader of Belarus — Alexander Lukashenko — for allowing Russian President Vladimir Putin to use his country as a staging ground for attacks on Ukraine. The European Union also added new sanctions to deny oligarchs luxuries such as pure-bred horses and truffles, and sanctioned 15 individuals, including the chief executive of Russia’s state-run television station Channel One, which the EU says is used for propaganda purposes.HOW IS THE SPORTS WORLD BEING AFFECTED BY RUSSIA’S WAR IN UKRAINE?The EU imposed sanctions Tuesday on Chelsea soccer club owner Roman Abramovich. Britain had already frozen Abramovich’s assets and prevented Chelsea from selling new tickets or merchandise or signing new players.The Court of Arbitration for Sport upheld a ban on Russian soccer teams from participating in European competition. Russia is also asking CAS to review a similar ban by FIFA, which awarded Poland a bye in its scheduled March 24 World Cup qualifying match against Russia. The Swiss swimming federation is  threatening to boycott  this year’s world championships in Budapest, Hungary in June and July if the sport’s governing body allows Russian and Belarusian athletes to compete. FINA has said it opposes a ban and would allow them to compete without their national flags. __Follow the AP’s coverage of the war between Russia and Ukraine:  http://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine