___Fed begins inflation fight with key rate hike, more to comeWASHINGTON (AP) — The Federal Reserve launched a high-risk effort to tame the worst inflation since the 1970s, raising its benchmark short-term interest rate and signaling potentially up to seven rate hikes this year. The Fed’s quarter-point hike in its key rate, which it pinned near zero since the pandemic recession struck two years ago, marks the start of its effort to curb the high inflation that has followed the recovery from the recession. The rate hikes will eventually mean higher loan rates for many consumers and businesses.___How higher interest rates will affect Americans’ financesWASHINGTON (AP) — Americans who have long enjoyed the benefits of historically low interest rates will have to adapt to a very different environment as the Federal Reserve embarks on a period of rate hikes to fight inflation. Record-low mortgage rates below 3%, reached last year, are already gone. Credit card interest rates and the costs of an auto loan will also likely move up. Savers may receive somewhat better returns, depending on their bank, while returns on long-term bond investment funds will likely suffer. Here are some questions and answers about what the rate hikes could mean for consumers and businesses.Russia-Ukraine war'Why? Why? Why?' Ukraine's Mariupol descends into despairRussia-Ukraine war: Key things to know about the conflictBack from Kyiv, leaders seek peace mission, arms for UkraineRussia's onslaught continues amid optimism over talksADVERTISEMENT___US retail spending slows as inflation starts to biteNEW YORK (AP) — After beginning the year in a buying mood, Americans slowed their spending in February on gadgets, home furnishings and other discretionary items as higher prices for food, gasoline, and shelter are taking a bigger bite of their wallet. Retail sales increased 0.3% after registering a revised 4.9% jump from December to January, fueled by wage gains, solid hiring and more money in banking accounts, according to the Commerce Department. January’s increase was the biggest jump in spending since last March, when American households received a final federal stimulus check of $1,400. Restaurant sales rose in February as shoppers shifted more of their spending to services as the threat of COVID-19 fades.___How to cushion the financial hit from sky-high gas pricesDETROIT (AP) — Any motorist who has filled up lately could be forgiven for wincing in disbelief. Fueled largely by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, gas prices worldwide have skyrocketed. In the U.S., they’ve reached record highs above $4.30 a gallon. That’s 50%, or $1.43 per gallon, more than they were a year ago. But there are steps you can take to make an old car, truck or SUV perform better, go farther and perhaps save money on fuel. Keeping tires properly inflated, making sure fluids and filters are changed, coasting up to stop lights and shutting off the engine if it’s idling for more than a minute are among the actions you can take.___Stocks, yields end higher after Fed raises interest ratesADVERTISEMENTNEW YORK (AP) — Stocks shook off an afternoon stumble and ended higher on Wall Street Wednesday after the Federal Reserve announced its first interest rate hike since 2018. Bond yields also rose as the Fed started to pivot its policy to fighting inflation. As markets had anticipated, the Fed raised its short-term rate by 0.25 percentage points. The move marks a shift by the Fed away from maintaining the ultra-low interest rates it had in place during the worst part of the pandemic, which were meant to stimualte the economy. Now that prices are rising, it’s changing course. The S&P 500 added 2.2%.___Howard Schultz returns to lead Starbucks on interim basisSEATTLE (AP) — Longtime Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz is returning to lead the company on an interim basis after the coffee giant’s current CEO announced his retirement. Starbucks made the announcement Wednesday ahead of its annual meeting. President and CEO Kevin Johnson said he will retire next month after five years as CEO and 13 at Starbucks. Johnson, a former executive at Microsoft and Juniper Networks, succeeded Schultz as CEO in 2017. Johnson, 61, said he told the company’s board last year that he was considering retirement. Investors cheered the news. Starbucks shares jumped 5% in premarket trading.___BMW, VW warn of shortages from part suppliers in UkraineLONDON (AP) — BMW and Volkswagen have warned that Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is causing shortages of some vital components, forcing them to reduce vehicle production in Europe. The two German carmakers said this week that the conflict is having a “negative” effect on auto supply chains. BMW said Wednesday that bottlenecks at its suppliers in Ukraine have forced the automaker to adjust or interrupt production at a number of factories, which is likely to have a negative impact on vehicle sales figures. Executives from both companies said wiring harnesses that bundle and organize wires or cables are in short supply because their main suppliers are in western Ukraine.___Tired of waiting for driverless vehicles? Head to a farmDES MOINES, Iowa (AP) — For years Americans have been told autonomous technology was improving and that driverless vehicles were just around the corner. Finally they’re here, but to catch a glimpse of them, you’ll need to go to a farm. Beginning this fall, tractors that can plow day or night with no one sitting in the cab will come off the John Deere factory assembly line in Waterloo, Iowa. The development follows more than a decade-long effort by the world’s largest farm equipment manufacturer, and marks a milestone for automation advocates, who for years have been explaining why driverless cars aren’t quite ready for prime time. Deere isn’t release to cost of the tractor. It plans to operate the tractors on 10 to 50 farms by this fall.___The S&P 500 rose 95.41 points, or 2.2%, to 4,357.86. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 518.76 points, 1.5%, to 34,063.10. The Nasdaq surged 487.93 points, or 3.8%, to 13,436.55. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies advanced 61.75 points, or 3.1%, to 2,030.72.