RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — A North Carolina nursing home put its residents in “immediate jeopardy” when it failed to enact an emergency plan, leaving just three people to take care of 98 residents during a January storm, according to a state report released Monday.The News & Observer account says  the report from the state Department of Health and Human Services said police arrived at Pine Ridge Health & Rehabilitation Center on the night of Jan. 16 after receiving a 911 call from a resident who complained about not seeing staff members for a “long period of time.” Police found two residents dead and two others in critical condition inside the nursing home.The report describes a chaotic scene at the nursing home, located in Thomasville, about 70 miles (110 kilometers) northeast of Charlotte. It says residents were without food and needed medications, and that patients were wandering behind the nursing station in the dementia unit and putting unidentified things in their mouth. A police officer said the one nurse on duty had been working for 16 hours and “almost broke down into tears.”ADVERTISEMENTHealthPregnant woman, baby die after Russian bombing in MariupolCOVID-19 cases more than double in China's growing outbreakFor kids with COVID-19, everyday life can be a struggleFrance lifts COVID-19 rules on unvaccinated, mask wearingThe officer said five or six call lights were on in the hallway, some rooms smelled of urine and feces, and others had garbage on the floors, according to the report.A previous statement by Pine Ridge Health said the deaths were “medically unrelated” to any staffing issues  caused by the storm. An administrator told inspectors the nursing home had been “fully staffed on paper,” but the staff scheduled to arrive on the morning of Jan. 16 didn’t come in. The director of nursing said she had called staff to instruct them to come to work, but some didn’t answer their phones and others said they couldn’t make it because of poor road conditions. The nursing home acknowledged the problems and has taken steps to bring the facility back into compliance, the report said. A woman who answered the phone at Pine Ridge Health on Monday said the nursing home would not comment on the inspection report.