BASEBALLFreddie Freeman is headed home to Southern California and the Los Angeles Dodgers.The first-time free agent and the Dodgers agreed to a $162 million, six-year contract, according to a person familiar with the deal. The person spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity because the move had not yet been announced by the team.Freeman was the 2020 National League MVP. The first baseman helped the Atlanta Braves to their fourth straight NL East title last season and their first World Series championship since 1995.— By Beth HarrisSCOTTSDALE, Ariz. (AP) — Veteran slugger Kris Bryant agreed to a $182 million, seven-year contract to join the Colorado Rockies, according to a person familiar with the deal.The person spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the agreement was pending a successful physical.ADVERTISEMENTBryant is headed to his third team in eight months after spending his first six seasons with the Chicago Cubs, who traded him to San Francisco last July.The 2016 NL MVP and World Series champion batted a combined .265 with 25 homers and 73 RBIs last season. Despite a midseason slump that precipitated the trade, Bryant earned his fourth career All-Star selection during a solid rebound from a rough year at the plate in 2020.Novak DjokovicWednesday's Sports in BriefDjokovic, Russian players expected to compete at French OpenNadal now 17-0, No. 1 Medvedev crashes out at Indian Wells Rattled by spectator's outburst, Osaka loses at Indian Wells— By Greg BeachamTORONTO (AP) — All-Star third baseman Matt Chapman was acquired by the Toronto Blue Jays from the payroll-shredding Oakland Athletics for four players.A five-year veteran and three-time Gold Glove winner, Chapman hit .201 with 27 home runs and 72 RBIs in 151 games for the A’s last season. He was a first-time All-Star in 2019.Chapman won Platinum Gloves as the best defensive player in the AL, regardless of position, in 2018 and 2019. He is the latest addition in a busy offseason for the Blue Jays, who went 91-71 last year but finished one game behind Boston and New York in the AL wild-card race. Oakland received right-hander Gunnar Hoglund, Toronto’s top pick in the 2021 amateur draft, minor league left-hander Zach Logue, left-handed reliever Kirby Snead and infielder Kevin Smith.PEORIA, Ariz. (AP) — All-Star shortstop Fernando Tatis Jr. of the San Diego Padres had surgery on his broken left wrist. General manager A.J. Preller said this week that the $340 million superstar is expected to miss three months. Tatis led the NL with 42 homers in 2021 and was third in NL MVP balloting. Kim Ha-seong is expected to replace Tatis at shortstop.KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) — The Kansas City Royals signed six-time All-Star pitcher Zack Greinke to a $13 million contract for this season, reuniting the right-hander with the club that drafted him two decades ago.ADVERTISEMENTThe 38-year-old Greinke was the sixth overall pick by the Royals in the 2002 amateur draft, and spent his first six seasons with the club, winning the 2009 AL Cy Young Award. He was traded to Milwaukee the following year.SURPRISE, Ariz. (AP) — Kansas City traded left-hander Mike Minor to the Cincinnati Reds for lefty reliever Amir Garrett.The 29-year-old Garrett was 0-4 with a 6.04 ERA and seven saves in 63 appearances last season. The 34-year-old Minor went 8-12 with a 5.50 ERA across 28 starts with the Royals, but was likely going to be pushed into a long relief role if he stuck with Kansas City this season. PRO FOOTBALLORCHARD PARK, N.Y. (AP) — It’s Von Miller time in Buffalo.The two-time NFL Defensive Player of the Year, coming off his second Super Bowl title, agreed to a six-year contract with the Bills. Miller is an 11-year NFL veteran who spent his first 10-plus seasons in Denver before being traded to the Los Angeles Rams last season and winning the NFL championship.At 32, Miller brings a veteran presence to a young group of starting linebackers made up of Tremaine Edmunds and Matt Milano. With Buffalo playing a hybrid style defense, there’s a chance for Miller to provide an outside pass-rushing presence. He has 115 1/2 career sacks.TENNISNovak Djokovic will be allowed to play at the French Open even if he is not vaccinated against COVID-19 as long as the coronavirus situation in France remains stable, organizers said.Russian tennis players, including top-ranked Daniil Medvedev, will also be admitted to play in the tournament but as neutral athletes because of the war started by their country in neighboring Ukraine.Organizers said there is nothing at the moment preventing Djokovic from defending his title at the clay-court Grand Slam. France this week lifted measures requiring the need to wear face masks in most settings and allowing people who aren’t vaccinated back into restaurants, sports arenas and other venues.INDIAN WELLS, Calif. (AP) — Nursing a nagging foot injury, Rafael Nadal improved to 18-0 this season by edging Reilly Opelka 7-6 (3), 7-6 (5) in the fourth round of the BNP Paribas Open.Nadal improved to 19-0 against American opponents since losing to John Isner at the 2017 Laver Cup.Nadal, a three-time champion in the desert, advanced to the quarterfinals against wild card Nick Kyrgios. The Australian advanced to his first ATP Tour quarterfinal since winning Washington in 2019 after 10th-seeded Jannik Sinner withdrew because of illness.Taylor Fritz fired 14 aces in outlasting Alex de Minaur, 3-6, 6-4, 7-6 (5). COLLEGE BASKETBALLLouisville and Kenny Payne have agreed on a deal for the former Cardinals player and current New York Knicks assistant to become the men’s basketball program’s first Black head coach, said a person with knowledge of the situation.The person spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the decision had not been publicly announced. The University of Louisville Athletic Association is scheduled to meet Friday morning and the school will hold a news conference at the Cardinals’ home arena.Payne, 55, will replace Chris Mack in his first head coaching job. Payne has spent the past two years with the Knicks after 10 years as a Kentucky assistant on John Calipari’s staff. He was also an assistant at Oregon.— By Gary B. GravesWOMEN’S COLLEGE BASKETBALLNEW YORK (AP) — Rhyne Howard joined an exclusive group by becoming a three-time Associated Press All-American.The Kentucky senior became the ninth player in women’s basketball history to earn first-team honors three times. Howard was joined on the first team by South Carolina’s Aliyah Boston, Iowa’s Caitlin Clark, Baylor’s NaLyssa Smith, Michigan’s Naz Hillmon and Stanford’s Haley Jones. Hillmon and Jones tied for the fifth spot.HOCKEYSUNRISE, Fla. (AP) — The Florida Panthers landed one of the most coveted players on the NHL trade market, acquiring defenseman Ben Chiarot from the Montreal Canadiens for Tyler Smilanic and two draft picks.It was the second deal of the day for the Panthers, who cleared out about $2.5 million in cap room when they shipped forward Frank Vatrano to the New York Rangers for a fourth-round draft pick.SEATTLE (AP) — The Seattle Kraken started their pre-trade deadline fire sale by sending forward Calle Jarnkrok to the Calgary Flames for three draft picks.The Kraken are retaining half of Jarnkrok’s $2 million salary cap hit for the rest of the season.Jarnkrok, a 30-year-old Swede, has 26 points in 49 games this season.___More AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/apf-sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports