BISMARCK, N.D. (AP) — An attack on a police officer at the Bismarck Airport raised questions about security after authorities said the alleged attacker had tampered with an airport power supply first.An airport official said the man reached the power supply via an electrical infrastructure area that is kept open and unlocked so first responders can get to it.Christopher Fonseca, 34, faces charges including assault of a police officer, reckless endangerment and criminal mischief in Monday’s attack.No attorney was listed in court records Wednesday for Fonseca. Police reports list him as homeless. Authorities said it’s not clear why he was at the airport; he did not have a ticket to board a plane.ADVERTISEMENTIt’s also not clear what prompted the attack, which left the officer with bruises and cuts that required stitches, but Fonseca had also been at the airport without a ticket Saturday and was asked then to leave.BusinessFed begins inflation fight with key rate hike, more to comeHow higher interest rates will affect Americans' financesEXPLAINER: What would a Russian bond default mean?Powell and 3 other nominees to Fed posts clear Senate panelA police affidavit said Fonseca had turned off electrical breakers at the airport’s main information technology operation building, the Bismarck Tribune reported. The newspaper said the building controls the airport’s internet; security; radios; and runway, taxiway and wind sock lights, according to the affidavit.A backup generator returned power to all systems and no flights were disrupted, police spokeswoman Officer Lynn Wanner said.Matthew Remynse, the airport’s director of marketing and operations, told the Tribune that Fonseca got the breakers in a publicly accessible area.“They’re designed so if there’s a fire or an emergency they (breakers) can be shut off right away,” he said.Remynse said the Transportation Security Administration would investigate or may turn the matter over to the FBI. He said officials will work with police to see if any security changes are needed.A police officer has been injured in an attack at the Bismarck Airport. Police say the officer was called to check on a man who was bothering passengers waiting in the security line Monday. The officer told the man that he would have to leave the airport if he didn’t have an airline ticket. The officer was having a conversation with him in the front lobby area when “the guy just attacked him out of the blue,” said Officer Lynn Wanner. The officer suffered lacerations that required stitches and was taken to the hospital. The officer radioed for assistance and the man was handcuffed with the help of airport and Transportation Security Administration officers.Police say the 34-year-old man had brass knuckles in his possession when he was booked into the Burleigh Morton Detention Center. __This story has been changed to correct the age of the suspect from 37 to 34, according to updated information from Bismarck police.