ATLANTA (AP) — Trae Young scored 33 points, Danilo Gallinari added 25 and the Atlanta Hawks held on to beat the Golden State Warriors 121-110 on Friday night.Klay Thompson finished with 37 points, hitting a season-high nine 3-pointers, and Jordan Poole had 24 for the Warriors, playing without Stephen Curry because of sprained left foot. They have dropped four of five.Golden State, third in the Western Conference, was coming off a rousing win at Miami on Wednesday night before faltering against the Hawks. Atlanta, the No. 10 team in the East, had dropped two of three. KNICKS 111, HEAT 103MIAMI (AP) — Immanuel Quickley scored 20 of his 23 points in the fourth quarter, leading a huge comeback that carried New York past reeling Miami.RJ Barrett added 18 points for the Knicks. They trailed by 17 points with 11 minutes left before closing on a 38-13 run and handing Miami a third consecutive loss — all of them against teams who were missing top players.ADVERTISEMENTJimmy Butler led Miami with 30 points. The Eastern Conference-leading Heat have a half-game lead over defending NBA champion Miami.TIMBERWOLVES 116, MAVERICKS 95Utah JazzTrae Young, Hawks send Warriors to fourth loss in five gamesWolves stop skid, avenge recent loss with romp over MavsBridges, Hornets bounce back with 107-101 win over JazzDinwiddie thrives with fresh start, lifts playoff-bound MavsMINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Karl-Anthony Towns had 20 points and nine rebounds and Minnesota made up for a narrow loss at Dallas four days earlier.Jordan McLaughlin had a season-high 16 points on 6-for-8 shooting for the Timberwolves. They moved a half-game behind idle Denver for the sixth spot that they badly want in the Western Conference to avoid the play-in tournament. Luka Doncic had 24 points, 10 rebounds and eight assists for the Mavericks, who missed an opportunity to pass Utah for sole possession of fourth place in the Western Conference. The Mavericks are tied with the Jazz for home-court advantage for their likely first-round matchup. They will face each other Sunday.HORNETS 107, JAZZ 101CHARLOTTE, N.C, (AP) — Miles Bridges had 26 points and 11 rebounds, Terry Rozier added 25 points and Charlotte bounced back from an ugly loss to beat Utah.LaMelo Ball added 21 points for the Hornets. They had their five-game winning streak snapped Wednesday night with a 15-point loss to New York.Charlotte wrapped up a five-game homestand with a 4-1 record and pulled within a half-game of Brooklyn Nets for the eighth spot in the Eastern Conference.Donovan Mitchell had 26 points for Utah. The Jazz who have lost three straight.WIZARDS 100, PISTONS 97DETROIT (AP) — Kristaps Porzingis had 30 points and 10 rebounds and Washington held on to beat Detroit.Deni Avdija added 21 points and 10 rebounds to help the Wizards sweep the four-game season series.Marvin Bagley III led Detroit with 25 points, and Cade Cunningham added 22 points, nine rebounds and seven assists.