RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — Alexandar Georgiev made a season-high 44 saves for his seventh career shutout, Chris Krieder broke a scoreless tie late in the second period and the New York Rangers beat the Carolina Hurricanes 2-0 on Sunday night.It was the first shutout for Georgiev since beating Philadelphia 9-0 on March 17, 2021. Georgiev, who played for just the second time in New York’s last five games, picked up his first road victory since Jan. 8 at Anaheim.Frank Vatrano added an empty-net goal with 41.3 seconds to play to seal it for the Rangers.The loss sent the Hurricanes to their first four-game losing streak of the season (0-3-1). It also marked the end to a 14-game home-ice points streak, one shy of a franchise record. Frederik Andersen stopped 16 shots for the Hurricanes, who were blanked for the third time this season.FLYERS 2, ISLANDERS 1PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Kevin Hayes scored both goals for Philadelphia and the Flyers beat the New York Islanders in their first game since trading longtime captain Claude Giroux.ADVERTISEMENTJoel Farabee and Travis Konecny each assisted both goals for Philadelphia.NHLNHL trade deadline: Lightning add Paul; Leafs get GiordanoSharks swim past Coyotes 4-2 with late rallyJets' Harkins scores twice in 6-4 win over BlackhawksGeorgiev shuts out Hurricanes in Rangers' 2-0 victoryCasey Cizikas scored for the Islanders.Giroux was dealt to Florida on Saturday for former first-round pick Owen Tippett, a conditional 2024 first-round pick and a 2023 third-round pick. Stuck in last place in the Metropolitan Division, Giroux waived his no-trade clause in the final year of his contract for a chance to win his first Stanley Cup with the Eastern Conference-leading Panthers. A large billboard on I-95 near the arena thanked Giroux for his time in Philadelphia, and many in attendance still sported No. 28 Giroux jerseys.STARS 3, CAPITALS 2 WASHINGTON (AP) — Roope Hintz scored twice on the power play to compensate for Alex Ovechkin’s 40th goal of the season, leading Dallas past Washington.The Stars won for just the second time in six games and moved one point back of the final playoff spot in the Western Conference. They have 21 games left, three more than the closest team they’re chasing: the Vegas Golden Knights.Alexander Radulov also scored for Dallas. Jake Oettinger, who was playing on back-to-back days with Braden Holtby injured, made 36 saves.Ovechkin tied Wayne Gretzky as the only players to score 40 goals in a season 12 times and made Oettinger the 156th goalie the Capitals captain has scored on. With an assist on Ovechkin’s 770th career goal, Evgeny Kuznetsov extended his point streak to a career-high nine games. Despite a third-period goal by Dmitry Orlov, the Capitals had their point streak snapped at eight, losing in regulation for the first time since Feb. 28 after a 7-0-1 run since the calendar flipped to March.JETS 6, BLACKHAWKS 4CHICAGO (AP) — Jansen Harkins scored twice, Kyle Connor got his 39th goal of the season and Winnipeg beat Chicago.ADVERTISEMENTNikolaj Ehlers, Josh Morrissey and Blake Wheeler also scored, and Connor added two assists for the Jets. Andrew Copp added three assists, and Winnipeg won for the third time in four games to get within five points of the Western Conference’s final wild-card spot.Jonathan Toews, Dylan Strome, Taylor Raddysh and Philipp Kurashev each scored for Chicago. Patrick Kane set up the goals for Strome and Raddysh.SHARKS 4, COYOTES 2SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) — Noah Gregor had the go-ahead goal in the third period and added an assist to help San Jose rally past Arizona and snap a three-game losing streak. Timo Meier, Nick Bonino and Rudolfs Balcers also scored for San Jose, who trailed 2-1 in the third period with just under five minutes to play after Arizona’s Lawson Crouse scored. But Meier tied it 22 seconds later when he beat Karel Vejmelka to the upper corner. Gregor gave the Sharks their second goal in a 44-second span to put San Jose ahead 3-2.Balcers added an empty-net goal in the final minute for San Jose to seal it.Phil Kessel also had a goal for the Coyotes.—More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports