LOS ANGELES (AP) — Los Angeles County residents will no longer be required to wear masks at restaurants, bars, gyms, shops and other businesses starting Friday as community spread of the coronavirus continues to decline, the county’s top health official said. Data published Thursday by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention puts California’s most populous county in the lowest level of virus transmission. Public Health Director Dr. Barbara Ferrer said the milestone means she would issue a revised health order that aligns with new state guidelines unveiled Monday allowing vaccinated or unvaccinated people to choose to go without face coverings. While masks won’t be required, Ferrer urged residents to continue to wear them in crowded settings because of the extra layer of protection they provide. “We’re strongly recommending that people wear a mask indoors, for this next while,” she said during a briefing Thursday. ADVERTISEMENTBusiness owners can choose to require masks for both customers and employees. Santa Clara County in the San Francisco Bay Area stopped requiring masks in most indoor settings as of Wednesday, though health officials there also recommend residents still wear them. Coronavirus pandemicIs NYC ready to move on from COVID? Depends on who you askWhy are COVID vaccination rates still low in some countries?Peace Corps plans to start sending volunteers overseas againEXPLAINER: Why Pfizer needs time to make COVID-19 treatmentThe new rules were announced days after the CDC said it would begin focusing its measures based more on what’s happening at hospitals than on test results.The CDC said that more than 70% of Americans live in places where the coronavirus poses a low or medium threat to hospitals and therefore can stop wearing masks in most indoor places.Ferrer this week also announced plans to ease some of Los Angeles County’s rules requiring proof of vaccination at outdoor mega events, such as at stadiums, and indoors at bars, lounges and nightclubs. Vaccination verification or a recent negative test will still be required at indoor mega events, under state rules. Vaccination proof is also required for health care workers and employees of nursing homes.Masks are still required statewide in healthcare settings, nursing homes, homeless shelters and jails under orders from the California Department of Public Health. California last month became the first state to formally shift to an endemic approach to the coronavirus with Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom’s announcement of a plan that emphasizes prevention and quick reaction to outbreaks over mask mandates and business shutdowns.