Nonfiction 1. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)2. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)3. Money by Jacob Goldstein, narrated by the author (Hachette Books)4. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 5. Self Care by the Signs by Valerie Tejeda, narrated by the author (Audible Originals)6. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 7. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) 8. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)9. 12 Rules for Life by Jordan B. Peterson, narrated by the author (Random House Canada)10. Unf--k Your Brain by Faith G. Harper, PhD LPC-S ACS ACN, narrated by the author (Blackstone Audio, Inc.)ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. The Fellowship of the Ring, by J. R. R. Tolkien, narrated by Andy Serkis (Recorded Books)2. Where the Crawdads Sing by Delia Owens, narrated by Cassandra Campbell (Penguin Audio)EntertainmentWill Smith would face little more than a slap if chargedEXPLAINER: Alopecia 'strips people of their identity'Social media explodes during Oscars; TV viewership doesn'tFoo Fighters cancel all dates following drummer's death 3. The Hobbit by J. R. R. Tolkien, narrated by Andy Serkis (Recorded Books)4. The Two Towers by J. R. R. Tolkien, narrated by Andy Serkis (Recorded Books)5. The Return of the King by J. R. R. Tolkien, narrated by Andy Serkis (Recorded Books)6. Run, Rose, Run by James Patterson and Dolly Parton, narrated by Dolly Parton, Kelsea Ballerini, James Fouhey, Kevin T. Collins, Peter Ganim, Luis Moreno, Soneela Nankani, Ronald Peet, Robert Petkoff, Ella Turenne and Emily Woo Zeller (Little, Brown & Company)7. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)8. Impact Winter by Travis Beacham, performed by full cast (Audible Originals)9. The Recovery Agent by Janet Evanovich, narrated by Lorelei King (Simon & Schuster Audio)10. The Silmarillion by J. R. R. Tolkien, narrated by Martin Shaw (HarperCollins Publishers Limited)