Nonfiction 1. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)2. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)3. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 4. Happy Days by Gabrielle Bernstein, narrated by the author (Audible Studios)5. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 6. Life Force by Tony Robbins, Peter H. Diamandis and Robert Hariri, narrated by Jeremy Bobb, Tony Robbins, Peter Diamandis, Ray Kurzweil and Cassandra Campbell (Simon & Schuster Audio)7. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) 8. Unf--k Your Brain by Faith G. Harper, PhD LPC-S ACS ACN, narrated by the author (Blackstone Audio, Inc.)9. 12 Rules for Life by Jordan B. Peterson, narrated by the author (Random House Canada)ADVERTISEMENT10. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)Fiction1. Impact Winter by Travis Beacham, performed by full cast (Audible Originals)2. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)EntertainmentQuills and thrills as prodigious porcupine puppet unveiledActivism grows nationwide in response to school book bansCultural backlash intensifies against Russia over invasionDuke Fakir details The Four Tops musical bond in new book3. The Paris Apartment by Lucy Foley, narrated by Clare Corbett, Daphne Kouma, Julia Winwood, Sope Dirisu, Sofia Zervudachi and Charlie Anson (HarperAudio)4. Unmissing by Minka Kent, narrated by Carly Robins and Jane Oppenheimer (Brilliance Audio)5. Quicksilver by Dean Koontz, narrated by Todd Haberkorn (Brilliance Audio)6. Kismet by Lauren Blakely, performed by Julia Whelan and Shane East (Audible Originals)7. The Keeper of Happy Endings by Barbara Davis, narrated by Robin Siegerman and Hope Newhouse (Brilliance Audio)8. House of Sky and Breath by Sarah J. Maas, performed by Elizabeth Evans (Audible Studios)9. Defiance of the Fall 4: A LitRPG Adventure by TheFirstDefier and JF Brink, narrated by Pavi Proczko (Aethon Audio)10. The Silent Sisters by Robert Dugoni, narrated by Edoardo Ballerini (Brilliance Audio)