LAS VEGAS (AP) — Drew Timme scored 27 points, Chet Holmgren added 17, and top-ranked Gonzaga reached the West Coast Conference championship game for the 25th straight year by holding off San Francisco 81-71 Monday night.The Zags (25-3) worked the ball into the paint early and often, pushing around the smaller Dons while racing to a 24-point second-half lead. The Dons (24-9) mounted a late comeback, pulling within eight while holding Gonzaga without a field goal over the final 5:33. Gonzaga made four free throws down the stretch to win its 14th straight opening WCC tournament game. Andrew Nembhard had 17 points and nine assists while leading Gonzaga’s offense. Holmgren had seven rebounds and blocked six shots.Khalil Shabazz scored nine of his 27 points during a 13-2 run that got San Francisco back in it, and Julian Rishwain added 20. Coach Todd Golden has led a quick turnaround at San Francisco, putting the Dons on the cusp of their first NCAA Tournament since 1998 in his third season. San Francisco is No. 24 in the NCAA’s NET rankings and is one of the nation’s best 3-point shooting teams, led by the sharp-shooting Jamaree Bouyea.ADVERTISEMENTSportsFalcons WR Ridley suspended for '22 for bets on NFL games Spurs' Popovich ties Nelson for NBA career wins recordUkrainian basketball players anxiously watching homelandDespite vitriol, MLB owners, locked-out players closing gapA win over Gonzaga would have been a huge boost, but the Dons knew it wouldn’t be easy. The Zags lead the nation in scoring, are third in defensive field goal percentage and won the two regular-season meetings by 16 points each.The Dons had no answer for Timme and Holmgren during the regular season and it was even worse early in the WCC semifinals.Gonzaga pounded the ball inside to Timme at the start and the mustachioed big man with Vegas show-like footwork danced around the Dons for nine points in the first four minutes.Holmgren showed off his rare skill set early, shaking a defender with a spin in the lane for a two-handed dunk and dropping in an early-offense 3-pointer. He added an all-too-easy alley-oop dunk to give the Zags an 11-point lead in the first six minutes.Timme had 12 points, Holmgren 11 and Gonzaga had 34 points in the paint to lead 51-32 at halftime.Holmgren also wreaked havoc on defense, blocking four shots and altering several others while helping the Zags hold San Francisco to 10-of-33 shooting, including 4 for 19 from 3. San Francisco had a much better offensive flow in the second half, particularly after Holmgren went to the bench with his third foul. But the Dons had a hard time putting a dent in Gonzaga’s lead as the Zags kept making shots. San Francisco gradually chipped away at Gonzaga’s 24-point lead, then went on a 16-4 run to pull within 79-71 with 1:32 left. The Dons ran out of time to finish off the comeback, but can take some confidence from playing so well down the stretch. BIG PICTURESan Francisco: Looked shaky while falling into the big early hole, but more like an NCAA Tournament team with its late rally against the nation’s No. 1 team.ADVERTISEMENTGonzaga: Dominated at both ends early and held on after faltering late to keep its streak of WCC tournament finals alive. The Zags are now one win away from their ninth WCC tournament title in 10 years.UP NEXTSan Francisco: Awaits word if its resume is good enough to qualify for the NCAA Tournament.Gonzaga: Faces the Saint Mary’s-Santa Clara winner in Tuesday’s championship game.___More AP college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/college-basketball and https://apnews.com/hub/ap-top-25-college-basketball-poll and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25