ARCHERYRussia and Belarus flags and anthems banned at all World Archery international events.ATHLETICSRussia and Belarus athletes and officials barred from all World Athletics Series events, including the world race walking team championships in Oman this weekend, the world indoor championships in Serbia this month, and the world championships in Eugene, Oregon, in July. AUTO RACINGFormula One canceled the Russian Grand Prix in Sochi in September.Intercontinental Drifting Cup in Sochi in June canceled.BADMINTONRussia and Belarus athletes and officials banned from participating in all Badminton World Federation tournaments from March 8. Also, all BWF events in Russia and Belarus canceled. However, a few Russian players at two Para events in Spain this week and next week allowed to play as already on site, but as neutrals with no flags or anthems.ADVERTISEMENTBASKETBALLRussia teams and officials suspended from all competitions by the International Basketball Federation.EuroLeague suspended Russian clubs CSKA Moscow, UNICS Kazan, and Zenit St. Petersburg. Lokomotiv Kuban Krasnodar suspended from EuroCup.Russia-Ukraine warRussia-Ukraine War: Russia steps up attack on Ukraine cities'Undisguised terror': Russia's Kharkiv strike chills UkraineAs non-Ukrainians also flee war, some report mistreatmentNations agree to release 60M barrels of oil amid Russian warCANOEINGAthletes from Russia and Belarus suspended from competing at any International Canoe Federation events. Officials from those countries were also barred from officiating at any ICF-sanctioned event.SPORT CLIMBINGBoulder and Speed World Cup in Moscow in April to be relocated.CURLINGEuropean championships in Perm, Russia, in November to be relocated.World Curling Federation begun process to remove Russian entries from women’s world championship in Canada this month and men’s world championship in Las Vegas in April.CYCLINGThe International Cycling Union will allow Russian and Belarusian riders to compete as neutrals but will bar Russian and Belarusian teams and sponsors.EQUESTRIANInternational Equestrian Federation canceled all remaining events this year in Russia (51) and Belarus (six), including the Eurasian Championships in Moscow in July.FENCINGAlisher Usmanov, a Russian, stepped aside as president of the International Fencing Federation.GYMNASTICSThe International Gymnastics Federation canceled all World Cup and World Challenge Cup events in Russia and Belarus. Russia and Belarus flags and anthems banned at all FIG events. Canceled events included an acrobatics World Cup in Oktyabrskiy, Russia, in May, and a trampoline World Cup in St. Petersburg in September.FIELD HOCKEYRussia excluded from Women’s Junior World Cup in South Africa in April.ICE HOCKEYADVERTISEMENTRussia and Belarus banned from all International Ice Hockey Federation events. Russia men out of world championship in May. World junior championships in Russia in 2023 relocated to Serbia. NHL suspended all business dealings in Russia. Finland’s Jokerit club withdrew from Kontinental Hockey League conference quarterfinals.JUDOKazan Grand Slam, a World Judo Tour event, in May canceled. Russia President Vladimir Putin suspended as honorary president and ambassador of International Judo Federation. Sergey Soloveychik, Russian president of the European Judo Union, resigned.KARATEKarate 1-Premier League event in Moscow in October to be relocated.MODERN PENTATHLONRussia and Belarus athletes and officials banned from all International Modern Pentathlon Union events.ROWINGRussia and Belarus athletes and officials banned from World Rowing events.RUGBYRussia and Belarus suspended from all internationals and cross-border club events. Russia men’s team barred from Rugby Europe Championship and qualifying for the 2023 Rugby World Cup. Russia women’s team barred from Rugby Europe Championship, sevens world series, and qualifying for the Rugby World Cup Sevens in South Africa in September. Russian Rugby Union’s membership of World Rugby suspended.SHOOTINGRussians and Belarusians were excluded part way through a World Cup event in Egypt.SKATINGRussia and Belarus banned from all International Skating Union events, including world figure skating championships in France this month.SKIINGAll International Ski Federation events in Russia to the end of the season canceled or relocated. The World Cup cancellations included ski cross in Sunny Valley last weekend, aerials in Yaroslavl last week and Moscow this Saturday; moguls in Kuzbass this weekend; cross-country in Tyumen this month; and women’s ski jumping in Nizhny Tagil and Chaikovsky this month. Russian athletes to compete under FIS flag and anthem.SOCCERFIFA and UEFA suspend Russia national teams and clubs from all competitions. National men’s team barred from World Cup qualifying playoffs this month.Champions League final in May relocated from St. Petersburg to Paris. Spartak Moscow barred from Europa League last 16.UEFA canceled sponsorship from Russian energy company Gazprom which covered Champions League, UEFA national team competitions and the 2024 European Championship.SQUASHWorld junior championships in St. Petersburg, Russia, in August to be relocated.SWIMMINGWorld governing body FINA rules all Russia and Belarus athletes and officials to compete as neutrals with no country flag, colors or symbols. FINA Order awarded to Russian President Vladimir Putin withdrawn. World junior championships in Kazan, Russia, in August canceled. Diving world series in Kazan in April canceled.TAEKWONDOWorld Taekwondo and European Taekwondo Union will not organize or recognize any events in Russia and Belarus. Russia and Belarus flags and anthems banned at all international events. World Taekwondo withdrew honorary 9th dan black belt conferred on Russian President Vladimir Putin.TENNISThe International Tennis Federation canceled all of its events in Russia and postponed a minor tournament in Ukraine in April. Russia and Belarus are barred from team competitions like the Davis Cup and Billie Jean King Cup until further notice.Russian and Belarusian players will still be allowed to play on the ATP and WTA tours, but without national flags, and at the Grand Slams.TRIATHLONWorld Triathlon banned the participation of Russian and Belarusian athletes and officials from all international competitions or official events.VOLLEYBALLMen’s world championship in Russia in August to be relocated.Volleyball National League games in Russia in June and July to be relocated.WEIGHTLIFTINGEuropean youth championships in Kazan, Russia, in August to be relocated.OTHERAt Winter Paralympics, Russia and Belarus to compete as neutrals with no national flag, anthem or symbols in Beijing starting on Friday.SportAccord World Sport and Business Summit in Yekaterinburg, Russia, in May canceled.___More AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/apf-sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports