ALBANY, N.Y. (AP) — A state investigation has ruled an upstate New York police officer was justified in shooting a woman who was firing a shotgun out of her house last fall.Brandi Baida was fatally shot on Sept. 21 at her home in Auburn, in the Finger Lakes region west of Syracuse. According to the report issued Friday by the state attorney general’s office, police responding to a 911 call arrived to find the 30-year-old Baida firing a gun from the second-floor window of the two-family house. It was later determined there was no one else in her house at the time.Auburn Police Sgt. Timothy Spingler, who fired the shot that killed Baida, told investigators he identified Baida’s gun as a high-powered, large-caliber rifle. He said Baida fired multiple shots despite being ordered to stop, and may have been targeting another officer.The report did not include information about what led Baida to shoot out the window. Attempts to reach relatives of Baida were not immediately successful. ADVERTISEMENTAfter the fatal shot, police used drones to determine there were no other people in the house before entering. An autopsy report concluded that Baida was struck in the chest and died within 15 to 30 minutes after the shooting from loss of blood. ChinaWallets, IDs but no survivors found in China Eastern crashEXPLAINER: What is known about the China Eastern plane crashAsian shares rise, eyeing Ukraine, higher energy costsChina Eastern crash is rare disaster for state-run airlinesThe medical examiner concluded that even if officers had entered the house right after the shooting, Baida might not have survived even with immediate intervention, and the nearest trauma center was 30 miles away. While the report concluded that Spingler was justified in using deadly force and that officers’ conduct after the shooting was reasonable, it recommended that Auburn police use body-worn cameras. “While third party cameras captured a portion of this incident, had the officers been equipped with BWCs, there may have been an even clearer picture of the incident, which would have greatly facilitated the investigation of this case,” the report said. “Likewise, had there not been third party cameras available to capture the incident, or had the third parties concealed the existence of such footage, there would have been no available video evidence.”