NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — Juuse Saros made 35 saves to lead the Nashville Predators to a 4-1 victory over the Pittsburgh Penguins on Tuesday night. Mattias Ekholm, Tanner Jeannot, Eeli Tolvanen and Yakov Trenin scored for the Predators, who have won five of six. Roman Josi and Colton Sissons each had two assists. Jake Guentzel had the lone goal and Casey DeSmith stopped 21 shots for Pittsburgh, which won its previous two games. Ekholm scored first with 1.5 seconds remaining in the opening period. From the high slot, Filip Forsberg found his Swedish countryman skating down the left side for a redirect into an open net. Guentzel tied it 14 minutes into the second. Sidney Crosby won a faceoff in the left circle back to Kris Letang, who found Guentzel open in the right circle. He beat Saros for his 29th goal. Just 1:40 later, Nashville regained the lead when Jeannot tipped Josi’s shot from the point shot past DeSmith. ADVERTISEMENTTolvanen converted on a breakaway 1:23 later after Letang and Mike Matheson nearly collided at the Nashville blue line, sending Tolvanen in all alone on DeSmith. Trenin added an empty-net goal late. NHLSaros stops 35 shots as Predators down Penguins 4-1Kallgren gets shutout in 1st NHL start, Leafs beat Stars 4-0Fox scores in OT to give Rangers 4-3 win over DucksRed-hot Arizona caps eastern swing with 6-3 win vs. MontrealNORRIS WORTHYJosi entered with career highs in goals (17) and points (66). His three assists gave him a new career best in that category as well with 52. Tuesday was his 18th multipoint game of the season. He also extended his point streak to seven games. Josi won the Norris Trophy given to the NHL’s top defenseman in 2020. BIG ASSISTWith his assist on Guentzel’s goal, Crosby moved into a tie with former Detroit Red Wings defenseman Nicklas Lidstrom for 22nd place on the NHL’s career list with 878. The assist also extended Crosby’s point streak to 10 games. He’s the third Penguins player this season with a streak of 10 or more games, joining Guentzel (13) and Letang (10). STREAKS EXTENDEDMatt Duchene also picked up an assist on Ekholm’s goal. Duchene extended his point streak to seven games (eight goals, six assists). ... With his assist, Forsberg has a point in four straight games.UP NEXTPenguins: Visit the St. Louis Blues on Thursday. Predators: Visit the Philadelphia Flyers on Thursday. ___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports