Nonfiction 1. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)2. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)3. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 4. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 5. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) 6. The Joy of x by Steven Strogatz, narrated by Jonathan Yen (Tantor Audio)7. 12 Rules for Life by Jordan B. Peterson, narrated by the author (Random House Canada)8. Unf--k Your Brain by Faith G. Harper, PhD LPC-S ACS ACN, narrated by the author (Blackstone Audio, Inc.)9. The Art of War by Sun Tzu, narrated by Aidan Gillen (Audible Studios)10. Algorithms to Live By, by Brian Christian and Tom Griffiths, narrated by Brian Christian (Brilliance Audio)ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. Impact Winter by Travis Beacham, performed by full cast (Audible Originals)2. The War of Two Queens by Jennifer L. Armentrout, narrated by Stina Nielsen and Tim Campbell (Brilliance Audio)EntertainmentOscar Preview: Five big questions ahead of Sunday's awardsRalph Lauren returns to runway in a show of relaxed luxuryBeyoncé, Billie Eilish to sing nominated songs at OscarsJudge ends lengthy conservatorship for actor Amanda Bynes3. Run, Rose, Run by James Patterson and Dolly Parton, narrated by Dolly Parton, Kelsea Ballerini, James Fouhey, Kevin T. Collins, Peter Ganim, Luis Moreno, Soneela Nankani, Ronald Peet, Robert Petkoff, Ella Turenne and Emily Woo Zeller (Little, Brown & Company)4. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)5. The Match by Harlan Coben, narrated by Steven Weber (Brilliance Audio)6. The Kaiju Preservation Society by John Scalzi, performed by Wil Wheaton (Audible Studios)7. Memory’s Legion by James S. A. Corey, narrated by Jefferson Mays, Daniel Abraham and Ty Franck (Orbit)8. The Bluebonnet Battle by Carolyn Brown, narrated by Brittany Pressley (Brilliance Audio)9. The Paris Apartment by Lucy Foley, narrated by Clare Corbett, Daphne Kouma, Julia Winwood, Sope Dirisu, Sofia Zervudachi and Charlie Anson (HarperAudio)10. The Reunion by Meghan Quinn, narrated by Lidia Dornet, Teddy Hamilton, Laurie West, Rock Engle, CJ Bloom and Stephen Borne (Brilliance Audio)