WACO, Texas (AP) — Chloe Lamb scored 20 points and the South Dakota women earned their first NCAA Tournament victory, beating Mississippi 75-61 in the first round Friday.Fellow senior Hannah Sjerven had 20 points and seven rebounds as the 10th-seeded Coyotes (28-5) broke through in their fourth consecutive tournament appearance and fifth in 10 eligible seasons. Freshman Maddie Krull scored 13 points.The difference in experience showed with the Rebels (23-9) making their first NCAA appearance in 15 years as seventh-seeded Ole Miss never led while shooting 27% in the first quarter and 39% for the game.Shakira Austin, the leading scorer for the Rebels, was 3 of 16 from the field and finished with nine points and 11 rebounds. Angel Baker was the only Ole Miss player in double figures with 23.Lamb and Sjerven were steady from the start, with Sjerven opening the game by swishing a 3-pointer and screaming toward the rafters at the home of Baylor, the No. 2 seed in the Wichita Regional. The Coyotes play the Baylor-Hawaii winner Sunday.ADVERTISEMENTThe Rebels were down six and had the ball early in the third quarter when Liv Korngable knocked the ball out of Snudda Collins’ hands and took off the other way. Kyah Watson hit a shot, Lamb connected on a 3 and Watson scored again after another Ole Miss turnover for a 46-33 lead.College basketballIvey scores 22 as Purdue beats Yale 78-56 in NCAA tourneyTexas Tech overwhelms Montana State 97-62 in NCAA 1st roundSmith leads Auburn to 10th straight NCAA opening win, 80-61Record-setting defense leads S Carolina women to 79-21 winThe Coyotes took control with a 13-0 run in the second quarter for a 32-16 lead. Lamb had a pair of buckets, and Korngable scored the last five points. BIG PICTURESouth Dakota: Krull showed no nerves in her NCAA debut, running the offense at times, while finishing with four assists and no turnovers. The Coyotes had 19 assists on 29 buckets an nine turnovers and outscored Ole Miss 13-9 in points off turnovers.Mississippi: Austin’s struggles epitomized the game for the Rebels. The 6-foot-5 senior was 1 of 7 from the field at the half, then missed three easy shots in the first minute of the third quarter. Coach Yolett McPhee-McCuin took her out and the pair had an extended chat on the sideline before Austin went to the bench. She soon returned.___More AP coverage of March Madness: https://apnews.com/hub/march-madness and https://apnews.com/hub/college-basketball and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25