___UN: War in Ukraine to hurt poor nations importing grainROME (AP) — The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization is warning that poorer countries in northern Africa, Asia and the Middle East that depend heavily on wheat imports risk suffering significant food insecurity because of Russia’s war in Ukraine. A report from the agency Friday noted that Ukraine and Russia together account for one-third of global grain exports. The conflict risks driving up already soaring food prices globally. The U.N. agency says it’s unclear if other countries can fill the gap left by Russia and Ukraine, warning that wheat inventories are already low in Canada. It says the U.S., Argentina and other wheat-producing nations are likely to limit exports as governments seek to ensure domestic supply.___Google, Meta face EU, UK probes into ad bidding agreementBRUSSELS (AP) — British and European regulators have threatened to crack down on an agreement between Google and Facebook parent Meta for online display advertising services, saying the deal may breach the bloc’s rules on fair competition. The EU’s competition watchdog opened a probe into a 2018 ad bidding pact between Google and Facebook. The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, said the deal may be part of an effort to exclude ad tech services that compete with Google’s Open Bidding program — which would harm publishers and consumers. Google said the allegations are false and Facebook said it was a non-exclusive agreement that increases competition.Russia-Ukraine warRussia-Ukraine war: Key things to know about the conflictUN: War in Ukraine to hurt poor nations importing grainEXPLAINER: Will Russia bring Syrian fighters to Ukraine?Russians pounding Ukraine, but Mariupol's no Aleppo — yetADVERTISEMENT___Russia widens social media crackdown by blocking InstagramRussian regulators say internet users will be blocked from accessing Instagram because it’s being used to call for violence against Russian soldiers. The move is Moscow’s latest to restrict the reach of foreign social-media platforms. Russian communications and media regulator Roskomnadzor said Friday it’s tightening access to Instagram because it says the platform is spreading calls to commit violent acts against Russian citizens, including military personnel. Facebook parent Meta Platforms, which owns Instagram, defended its policies Friday. It says it is a a temporary decision taken in extraordinary and unprecedented circumstances.___EU leaders seek ways to give support amid high energy pricesADVERTISEMENTVERSAILLES, France (AP) — European Union leaders on Friday agreed to phase out our dependency on Russian gas, oil and coal imports “as soon as possible.” They also decided to soon draw a plan to support the continent’s economies as they face skyrocketing energy prices amid a crisis aggravated by the war in Ukraine. Heads of state and government gathered for a two-day summit at the Versailles palace, west of Paris. They said in a statement the strategy will involve accelerating the reduction of our overall reliance on fossil fuels diversifying supplies and routes for gas and oil and speeding up the development of renewable energy. Europe was already facing a tricky test before Russia’s invasion because of an outlook for slowing economic growth accompanied by surging inflation, driven by energy prices.___Stocks fall again as uncertainty over Ukraine war persistsNEW YORK (AP) — Stocks fell again after another bumpy day of trading on Wall Street Friday, marking the fourth losing week in the last five. Uncertainty about the war in Ukraine and persistently high inflation have continued to knock markets around. The S&P 500 gave up an early gain and ended 1.3% lower. Oil prices ended 3.1% higher after flip-flopping earlier. They’re the latest swings for global markets, which have been rocked by dramatic hour-to-hour reversals in prior weeks amid uncertainty about where inflation and the global economy are heading. The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates at its meeting next week.___‘Nothing is taboo’: EU mulling new sanctions against RussiaVERSAILLES, France (AP) — The European Union says it will continue applying pressure on Russia by devising a new set of sanctions to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine while stepping up military support for Kyiv. French President Emmanuel Macron said all options are on the table for a fourth package of coercive measures targeting Russia if President Vladimir Putin escalates his war efforts. Meanwhile, the EU’s top diplomat said he proposed that the EU injects an extra €500 million euros into the fund for military aid to Ukraine, as Russia widens its military offensive.___China’s premier promises 13 million jobs to reverse slumpBEIJING (AP) — China’s No. 2 leader says the government hopes to generate as many as 13 million new jobs this year to help reverse a painful economic slump but faces “many difficulties and challenges.” Forecasters say the ruling Communist Party is likely to struggle to meet its official 5.5% economic growth target, the lowest since the 1990s. That would be down sharply from last year’s 8.1% expansion as China contends with a crackdown on business debt, the coronavirus, weak global export demand and high energy prices. Premier Li Keqiang promised “pro-job policies” including tax and fee cuts totaling $400 billion for businesses.___How racism still affects millionaire donors of color: ReportNEW YORK (AP) — A new qualitative study of 113 millionaires of color found that nearly all had experienced racial or ethnic bias. “It’s so obvious, but it’s also very profound,” says report co-author Hali Lee, founding partner at Radiant Strategies and a co-founder of the Donors of Color Network. She says the finding demonstrates the ways that racism has affected the lives of millionaires of color — from where they raise their families to the people and causes they support. The study was released Wednesday by the Donors of Color Network, a membership organization for wealthy philanthropists from marginalized backgrounds, along with two consulting companies, Radiant Strategies and the Vaid Group.___The S&P 500 fell 55.21 points, or 1.3%, to 4,204.31. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 229.88 points, or 0.7%, to 32,944.19. The Nasdaq tumbled 286.15 points, or 2.2%, to 12,843.81. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies shed 32 points, or 1.6%, to 1,979.67.