CARDIFF, Wales (AP) — Wales is starting forwards Gareth Thomas, Seb Davies and Josh Navidi against Grand Slam-chasing France on Friday in the Six Nations, along with Tomas Francis after his head blow in the England loss.The 95-cap Jonathan Davies is also returned to the backline after Nick Tompkins was concussed in club action last weekend.The unbeaten French confirmed captain Antoine Dupont was OK after finishing training early on Tuesday when he hurt his left elbow and biceps.France made two changes following Damian Penaud’s positive test for the coronavirus. Left winger Gabin Villiere, who missed the Scotland win because of injury, was back and Yoram Moefana shifted to Penaud’s right wing. Reserve lock Romain Taofifenua also has the virus.Navidi was added to the Wales squad only this week after a serious shoulder injury. The British Lion proved his fitness in 80 minutes for his Cardiff club last Friday and made 16 tackles.ADVERTISEMENT“We think that’s enough for him and we look forward to him being back out there bringing that experience,” Wales coach Wayne Pivac said. Lock Seb Davies has been on the bench covering 6 in the last two games. He’s been impactful, and at 6-foot-6, Pivac wants his height to counter France’s tall back row. Davies has played three tests in the back row, but not since November 2018. In the absence of the injured Christ Tshiunza, Pivac hopes to develop a hybrid lock-flanker for the Rugby World Cup next year.SportsMLB, union bargain for 16 1/2 hours, recess until morningWilson, Wagner exits sign of major change ahead for SeahawksAnalysis: NFL's monitoring of betting must never fall shortPackers' next challenge: building around Rodgers, AdamsIt’s the 18th different back row Pivac has picked in 26 tests. Ross Moriarty dropped to the reserves and Taine Basham dropped out entirely.Gareth Thomas also came off the bench in the England defeat two Saturdays ago and has replaced British Lions loosehead Wyn Jones.Tighthead prop Tomas Francis’ health has been a controversial issue since he clashed heads with teammate Owen Watkin in the 20th minute against England. He staggered and appeared to need the pads on the goalpost to stay upright. He passed a head injury assessment after about 10 minutes and played on to the 56th.Progressive Rugby, a group of former and current players with medical experts, believed playing Francis breached HIA protocols, but Wales said on Wednesday that Francis and winger Josh Adams passed all return-to-play protocols, suffered no adverse reactions or complications, and were available for selection.Wales’ title defense is over after two losses, in Ireland and England, against the home win over Scotland.France is on track to win the Six Nations for the first time since 2010. It has beaten Italy 37-10 at home, with Villiere scoring a hat trick of tries, edged Ireland 30-24 and overwhelmed Scotland 36-17.ADVERTISEMENT“France are the in-form team in the world at the moment,” Pivac said. “Any team that can score 40 points against New Zealand (last November) plus having recently beaten Ireland in this competition are going to be hard to beat. They have a number of world-class players and are a big side that will test us physically and at the set piece.”___Lineups:Wales: Liam Williams, Alex Cuthbert, Owen Watkin, Jonathan Davies, Josh Adams, Dan Biggar (captain), Tomos Williams; Taulupe Faletau, Josh Navidi, Seb Davies, Adam Beard, Will Rowlands, Tomas Francis, Ryan Elias, Gareth Thomas. Reserves: Dewi Lake, Wyn Jones, Dillon Lewis, Ross Moriarty, Jac Morgan, Kieran Hardy, Gareth Anscombe, Louis Rees-Zammit.France: Melvyn Jaminet, Yoram Moefana, Gael Fickou, Jonathan Danty, Gabin Villiere, Romain Ntamack, Antoine Dupont (captain); Gregory Alldritt, Anthony Jelonch, Francois Cros, Paul Willemse, Cameron Woki, Uini Atonio, Julien Marchand, Cyril Baille. Reserves: Peato Mauvaka, Jean-Baptiste Gros, Mohamed Haouas, Thibaud Flament, Dylan Cretin, Maxime Lucu, Thomas Ramos, Matthis Lebel.___More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports