WELLINGTON, New Zealand (AP) — Six-time champion Australia again are favored to win the Women’s Cricket World Cup which begins Friday at a watershed moment in the sport, amid clamor for pay equity and rising global exposure for the women’s game.A comprehensive win in the recent Ashes series shows Australia is in peak form heading into its opening match of the tournament against defending champion England on Saturday.“I think our group is very fresh and that’s a good sign heading into what will be a physically and mentally challenging tournament,” Australia batter Rachael Haynes said. “There’s going to be some tough games of cricket.“We’ve seen different teams put in some good performances even in the warm-ups and also leading into this big World Cup as well. So I think it’s going to be a tight-looking sort of tournament.”Host New Zealand beat Australia in a warm-up match and will meet the West Indies in the first match of the tournament Friday with limited fan support at the Bay Oval in Tauranga. New Zealand is battling an omicron outbreak with more than 20,000 cases a day and crowds will be restricted to 10 percent of a venue’s capacity.ADVERTISEMENTCoronavirus pandemicWomen's World Cup to begin amid COVID threat, changing timesWashington residents can order more free COVID-19 testsDemocrats fear broadcaster Hepola could be spoiler for WalzFlorida gov to masked students: Time to end 'COVID theater' The tournament is an eight-team round-robin involving Australia, England, New Zealand, Pakistan, the West Indies, South Africa, India and Bangladesh. Matches will be played at six venues which will require considerable internal travel.COVID will loom as a constant threat over the tournament but extraordinary contingency plans have been put in place to allow matches to go ahead with as little disruption as possible.England captain Heather Knight told a news conference a tournament unaffected by COVID is “probably unlikely.”Organizers will allow matches to be rescheduled in the event of a COVID outbreak but also have an extraordinary plan in an extreme scenario which would allow teams to field nine players and two substitutes drawn from their management contingents. None of the teams has openly criticized that suggestion, though it has at least raised eyebrows and prompted some jokes.“It’s created a few jokes among the female staff,” Knight said. “We’ve got the doctor and the manager down to have a net tomorrow.“It’s probably unlikely it will be a COVID-free World Cup but that is the hope. With the rules around close contacts, there’s a scenario where it might happen, so people are desperate to get the tournament on if something goes badly wrong with COVID. It’s not an ideal situation and hopefully it never happens.”England won the last world tournament in 2017, rallying after losing their opening match against India to beat India in the final. Knight believes that experience is in England’s favor as it attempts to defend its title.ADVERTISEMENT“Australia are going to go in as favorites, but (the 2017 World Cup win) should give us a lot of experience of what it takes to be successful in these events,” she said. “Sometimes it’s just about getting over the line and I think that’s what we did so well in 2017.“We just were able to win those games that were really tight. We were able to keep our composure in the big moments and deal with all the off-field stuff that comes with the World Cup.“It’s a nice reminder to look back because we’re going to have to ride the highs and the lows and that’s almost the brilliance of being in a World Cup. The different countries you have to face, the travel, the ebbs and flows of the tournament and trying to peak towards the back end of the group stages. I’m so excited to get going again.”The eight teams at the World Cup will be competing for a prize pool of $3.5 million, an increase of 75 percent on the previous tournament. The winner will receive $1.32 million, double the winner’s prize in 2017.That’s compared to the $10 million which will be up for grabs in the men’s World Cup in 2023, including the $4 million winner’s purse.The increase in prizemoney still marks a major step forward for women’s cricket. Individual nations also are taking steps to improve the remuneration of female players. “Those sorts of things are really important in terms of the message that it sends more broadly in the community,” Australian vice-captain Haynes told Australian media. “Even just last week, we saw the US soccer team win their fight for pay equity in their sport, so I think there is a lot of groundswell around this and particularly governing bodies needing to make sure there is gender equity in their sport.“I definitely would suspect over time we would see greater parity in prize pools and pay.”___More AP cricket: https://apnews.com/hub/cricket and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports