NASCAR CUP SERIES EchoPark Automotive Grand PrixSite: Austin, Texas.Schedule: Saturday, practice, 10 a.m., and qualifying, 11 a.m.; Sunday, race, 3:30 p.m. (FOX)Track: Circuit of the Americas.Race distance:68 laps. 231.88 miles.Last year: Chase Elliott won after starting eighth.Last race: William Byron pulled off the race-record 46th lead change on lap 315 of 325 and outran Christopher Bell and Ross Chastain to win in Atlanta.Fast facts: Byron was among a race-record 20 race leaders. He gave Hendrick Motorsports three different winners through five races. ... Bell was penalized for an illegal pass on the final lap and relegated to 23rd place, the last spot on the lead lap. ... The race weekend was the first on the track since a major repaving and reconfiguration since the series raced at the 1.54-mile track last July. ... Chastain’s finish came despite a crash that put him two laps down. Kyle Busch also rallied after a crash to finish third.ADVERTISEMENTNext race: April 3, Richmond, Virginia.Online: http://www.nascar.comNASCAR XFINITY SERIES Pit Boss 250Site: Austin, Texas.Auto RacingColumn: Indy 500 hype begins after Johnson's big finishMotorsports celebrates strong weekend across several series William Byron wins wild NASCAR race at remodeled AtlantaNewgarden passes McLaughlin in final turn to steal Texas winSchedule: Friday, practice, 5 p.m., and qualifying, 5:30 p.m.; Saturday, race, 4:30 p.m. (FS1)Track: Circuit of the AmericasRace distance: 48 laps, 156.86 miles.Last year: Kyle Busch won after starting in the pole position.Last race: Ty Gibbs passed Ryan Sieg on the final lap of a second overtime and beat Austin Hill by 0.178 seconds to win at Atlanta.Fast facts: Gibbs led just the final lap and earned his second victory in five starts this season and his sixth in 23 career starts. ... The race included a race-record 10 caution flags that slowed the pace for 56 laps. ... A.J. Allmendinger ran third, followed by Riley Herbst and Landon Cassill. ... Noah Gragson’s streak of four consecutive top-three finishes and Justin Allgaier’s streak of 16 consecutive top-10 finishes ended.Next race: April 2, Richmond, Virginia.Online: http://www.nascar.comNASCAR TRUCK SERIES XPEL 225Site: Austin, Texas.Schedule: Friday, practice, 3 p.m., and qualifying, 3:30 p.m.; Saturday, race, 1 p.m. (FS1)Track: Circuit of the Americas.Race distance: 42 laps, 143.22 miles.Last year: Todd Gilliland won after starting fifth.Last race: Corey Heim passed Kyle Busch Motorsports teammate Chandler Smith on the last lap and won at Atlanta, his first career victory in just his fifth career start.Fast facts: Ben Rhodes rallied to finish second, followed by Ty Majeski and Smith at Atlanta. ... Smith is the points leader by 13 over Tanner Gray. Gray and third-place Majeski are the only drivers with three top-10 finishes in as many races.Next race: April 7, Martinsville, Virginia.Online: http://www.nascar.comFORMULA ONE Saudi Arabian Grand PrixSite: Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.ADVERTISEMENTSchedule: Friday, practice, 10 a.m. and 1 p.m.; Saturday, practice, 10 a.m., and qualifying, 1 p.m.; Sunday, race, 1 p.m. (ESPN)Track: Jeddah Corniche Circuit.Race distance: 50 laps, 191.662 miles.Last year: Lewis Hamilton won in early December after starting in the pole position.Last race: Charles Leclerc won the season-opener in Bahrain, leading a 1-2 finish for Ferrari. Fast facts: Leclerc’s victory was his first since he won back-to-back events midway through the 2019 season. ... Defending series champion Max Verstappen and Red Bull teammate Sergio Perez both retired before the race concluded, allowing seven-time series champion Lewis Hamilton to rally for a third-place finish. ... Verstappen retired on Lap 54 of the 57-lap event, Perez on Lap 56.Next race: April 10, Melbourne, Australia.Online: http://www.formula1.comINDYCAR Last race: Josef Newgarden passed teammate Scott McLaughlin in the final turn at Texas to give Team Penske victories in the season’s first two races.Next race: April 10, Long Beach, California. Online: http://www.indycar.comNHRA DRAG RACING Last event: Tripp Tatum won in Top Fuel and Matt Hagan won in Funny Car at the Gatornationals in Gainesville, Florida.Next event: April 1-3, Las Vegas.Online: http://www.nhra.comWORLD OF OUTLAWSNext events: March 25, Bakersfield, California, and March 26, Perris, California.Online: http://worldofoutlaws.com/sprintcars___ More AP auto racing: https://apnews.com/hub/auto-racing and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports