SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. (AP) — It may look a little weird for a few days, but Freddie Freeman officially put on Dodger blue and Kris Bryant donned the purple and black of the Colorado Rockies.A few miles away in Mesa, Japanese star outfielder Seiya Suzuki also was in camp Friday, ready to bolster the Chicago Cubs.It was introduction day in Arizona for some of sport’s biggest free agent signings. In the case of Freeman and Bryant, the money is certainly substantial but the pull of family loomed large in both decisions.“I talked to my wife and I said, ‘I think it’s time to go home,’” said Freeman, who grew up in Southern California. “I’ve got my 67-year-old dad and my 86-year-old grandfather who’s now going to be able to watch me play every day, just like 15 years ago in high school, so that’s what’s special to me.”Freeman said goodbye to the World Series champion Atlanta Braves earlier this week, signing a $162 million, six-year deal to join an already loaded Los Angeles lineup. ADVERTISEMENTAs for Bryant, he’s had a soft spot for the Rockies for more than a decade. He thought he’d be drafted by the Rockies with the No. 3 overall pick in the 2013 draft before the Chicago Cubs swooped in and grabbed him with the No. 2 selection. He was traded from the Cubs to the Giants during the 2021 season.MLBIntroduction day: Freeman, Suzuki, Bryant enjoy new digsKris Bryant, Rockies finalize $182M, 7-year contractFreeman stung by ATL departure, thrilled by Dodgers landingVoit traded by Yanks to Padres for minor league pitcherOnce he hit free agency, he was already comfortable with a Rockies organization that scouted him extensively more than 10 years ago. Bryant will stay in the NL West after finalizing his $182 million, seven-year deal on Friday.“I love Denver, I love the city,” the 2016 MVP said. “I’ve always saw myself living there. Now that I have a son and two more boys on the way, a big family, just being so close to home, all that’s a plus to me.“I was thrilled to hear the Rockies were looking to do a deal with a bat, and I feel like I fit really well here,” he said.Suzuki also finalized his deal on Friday, signing with the Cubs for $85 million over five seasons. Chicago will pay an additional $14,625,000 as a posting fee to Suzuki’s club, the Hiroshima Toyo Carp of Japan’s Central League.ANGELS ADD BRADLEYRight-hander Archie Bradley has agreed to a $3.75 million, one-year deal to bolster the Los Angeles Angels’ bullpen.Bradley went through his first workout with the Angels on Friday. The veteran reliever is the latest addition by general manager Perry Minasian to the Angels’ long-struggling pitching staff, and more help is on the way.Los Angeles also will add veteran right-handed reliever Ryan Tepera after a roster spot is cleared for him.Bradley went 7-3 with a 3.71 ERA and 40 strikeouts last season for Philadelphia. The eight-year major league veteran has a career 3.89 ERA and experience as a starter and a closer with the Arizona Diamondbacks.CARDS GET DICKERSON, MOLINA TO REPORTADVERTISEMENTOutfielder Corey Dickerson and the St. Louis Cardinals finalized a $5 million contract for the upcoming season.The 32-year-old fills a big need for the Cardinals by adding a left-handed bat to their lineup. He hit .271 with six homers and 29 RBIs while appearing in 109 games for the Marlins and Blue Jays last season.Dickerson was an All-Star in 2017, his second of two years with Tampa Bay, and won a Gold Glove in 2018 in his only full season in Pittsburgh.Also on Friday, manager Oliver Marmol said catcher Yadier Molina is expected to report to camp on Monday.The 10-time All-Star has been absent for the first week of camp because of what the Cardinals are calling “personal reasons.” He will be the last of the Cardinals to report.___AP Baseball Writer Ronald Blum and AP Sports Writer Greg Beacham contributed to this story.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports