Nonfiction 1. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)2. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)3. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 4. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 5. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)6. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) 7. 12 Rules for Life by Jordan B. Peterson, narrated by the author (Random House Canada)8. Unf--k Your Brain by Faith G. Harper, PhD LPC-S ACS ACN, narrated by the author (Blackstone Audio, Inc.)9. Cues by Vanessa Van Edwards, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)10. Undistracted by Bob Goff, narrated by the author (Thomas Nelson)ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. Impact Winter by Travis Beacham, performed by full cast (Audible Originals)2. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)3. The Paris Apartment by Lucy Foley, narrated by Clare Corbett, Daphne Kouma, Julia Winwood, Sope Dirisu, Sofia Zervudachi and Charlie Anson (HarperAudio)EntertainmentBob Dylan book on 'Modern Song' to come out in NovemberDylan McDermott reinvents modern gangster on 'Law & Order'Chanel caps Paris Fashion Week with swaths of iconic tweedsBiden drew more viewers in otherwise quiet TV week4. The Reunion by Meghan Quinn, narrated by Lidia Dornet, Teddy Hamilton, Laurie West, Rock Engle, CJ Bloom and Stephen Borne (Brilliance Audio)5. Unmissing by Minka Kent, narrated by Carly Robins and Jane Oppenheimer (Brilliance Audio)6. Project Hail Mary by Andy Weir, performed by Ray Porter (Audible Studios)7. Verity by Colleen Hoover, performed by Vanessa Johansson and Amy Landon (Audible Studios)8. Good as Dead by Susan Walter, narrated by Kimberly Woods, Suzanne Elise Freeman, James Anderson Foster, Selah Victor, Jack Turner and Seth Podowitz (Brilliance Audio)9. Never Saw Me Coming by Vera Kurian, narrated by Brittany Pressley (Harlequin Audio)10. Quicksilver by Dean Koontz, narrated by Todd Haberkorn (Brilliance Audio)