MLB JUPITER, Fla. (AP) — Major League Baseball has extended its deadline for reaching a labor deal to 5 p.m. on Tuesday for salvaging opening day on March 31.Locked-out players and team owners engaged in a series of intense negotiations that began Monday and stretched into early Tuesday morning as the sides attempted to forge the path to an agreement.Players and owners met for a 13th time with a session that started after 2 a.m. as the lockout reached its 90th day. They made progress toward an agreement but remained far apart on key issues.MIAMI (AP) — Derek Jeter announced a surprise departure from the Miami Marlins on Monday after 4 1/2 mostly unsuccessful years that didn’t come remotely close to matching his success as a player for the New York Yankees.Jeter became CEO of the Marlins in September 2017 when Bruce Sherman bought the team from Jeffrey Loria. ADVERTISEMENTA five-time World Series champion during a playing career spent entirely with the Yankees from 1995-2014, Jeter was elected to baseball’s Hall of Fame in 2020.Miami went 218-327 during his four seasons at the helm, finishing with a winning record only once at 31-29 in the pandemic-shortened 2020 season.Russia-Ukraine warLive updates: Separatists say there are evacuation routesReading Putin: Unbalanced or cagily preying on West's fears?Russia pummels Ukraine's No. 2 city and convoy nears KyivSorting fact, disinformation after Russian attack on UkraineINTERNATIONAL SPORTSGENEVA (AP) — Russian teams were suspended Monday from all international soccer, including qualifying matches for the 2022 World Cup, as Moscow was pushed toward pariah status in sports for its invasion of Ukraine.World soccer body FIFA and European authority UEFA banned Russian national and club teams from their competitions “until further notice.” Russia’s men’s national team had been scheduled to play in World Cup qualifying playoffs in just three weeks.The high-level punishment involving sports and politics — something not seen for decades — came after the International Olympic Committee pushed dozens of sports governing bodies to exclude Russian athletes and officials from international events.The International Ice Hockey Federation banned Russia and close ally Belarus from competitions at all age levels and said it was moving the 2023 world junior championship out of Siberia.The NHL also condemned the invasion, suspending all business dealings in Russia and ruling out the possibility of holding events there in the near future.The World Rugby suspended Russia and Belarus from all international events and cross-border club rugby, and suspended the Russian Rugby Union’s membership.NFLLONDON (AP) — The Tampa Bay Buccaneers will play in the NFL’s first regular-season game in Germany this year and the Green Bay Packers are traveling abroad for the first time.The league said Monday that the Bucs will host the inaugural game in Munich next season, although their opponents and the date for the game have yet to be announced.ADVERTISEMENTThe Packers and the New Orleans Saints are the designated home teams for two games at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium in London, while the Jacksonville Jaguars will host a game at Wembley Stadium. The Arizona Cardinals will play a game at Estadio Azteca in Mexico City.The Las Vegas Raiders and Jacksonville Jaguars will open the 2022 NFL preseason schedule on Aug. 4 in the Hall of Fame game.GOLFPALM BEACH GARDENS, Fla. (AP) — Zach Johnson was introduced as the 30th U.S. captain on Monday, next in line to try to end three decades of losing the Ryder Cup on European soil.Johnson was still in high school in 1993 when the Americans won at The Belfry. Expectations have never been higher considering their 19-9 victory last September at Whistling Straits behind a young team with staying power.The 2023 matches are at Marco Simone in Italy.ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) — Bryson DeChambeau withdrew from the Arnold Palmer Invitational on Monday, saying he did not want to risk further injury to his hand and hip because he wasn’t completely ready to defend his title at Bay Hill.DeChambeau has not competed since pulling out after the first round of the Saudi International on Feb. 3. The previous week, he missed the cut at Torrey Pines.DeChambeau said in an Instagram post that he would try to be ready for The Players Championship next week. He said he is able to hit golf balls in a simulator but it’s not “comfortable.”COLLEGE FOOTBALLArt Briles’ tenure as offensive coordinator at Grambling State is over less than a week after it started.The former disgraced Baylor coach said he didn’t want to be a “distraction” at the prominent HBCU with a storied football program in northern Louisiana, leaving the program just five days after he was surprisingly hired by coach Hue Jackson.Briles has been a pariah in college football since 2016, when he was fired by Baylor after an investigation concluded he and his staff took no action against players named in sexual assault allegations.WOMEN’S COLLEGE BASKEBALLGAINESVILLE, Fla. (AP) — No. 23 Florida removed the interim tag from Kelly Rae Finley’s title Monday and gave her a five-year contract to be the team’s head coach.The 36-year-old Finley took over in July when Cam Newbauer resigned amid allegations that he physically and verbally abused players.The Gators (20-9, 10-6 Southeastern Conference) regrouped under Finley’s guidance and caught fire in early January, moving into the AP Top 25 for the first time in more than five years while winning 10 of 11 games. TENNISDaniil Medvedev officially moved up to No. 1 in the ATP rankings on Monday, overtaking Novak Djokovic to become the 27th man to hold the top spot since computerized rankings began in 1973.Medvedev, a 26-year-old from Russia who won last year’s U.S. Open and was the runner-up at this year’s Australian Open, rose from No. 2.Medvedev is the first player other than Djokovic, Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal or Andy Murray to get to No. 1 since February 2004, when Andy Roddick was there.SOCCERLONDON (AP) — American coach Jesse Marsch was hired by Leeds on Monday, with the club hoping a late-season change in manager can help to preserve its English Premier League status.Marsch replaced Marcelo Bielsa, who was fired on Sunday following a dramatic downturn in results, and is back in work nearly three months after leaving German team Leipzig.He was previously at another Red Bull-backed club in Salzburg, which he led to back-to-back league-and-cup doubles in Austria.NEW YORK (AP) — New York City FC signed 14-year-old midfielder Maximo Carrizo to a homegrown contract Monday, making him the youngest first-team signing in MLS history. Carrizo celebrated his 14th birthday on the same day he signed his contract, which runs through the 2027 season with an option for 2028. He’s the 10th homegrown signing in NYCFC history. Carrizo joined the NYCFC academy in 2018 as an under-12 player and was invited to take part in the first-team training camp during this preseason. Carrizo took part in the U-15 MLS Next playoffs last year and was called into U.S. U-15 national team camp earlier this year. BOXINGCARDIFF, Wales (AP) — British boxing authorities are investigating the scoring of a world title fight that saw Scottish fighter Josh Taylor retain his light-welterweight belts in a split-decision victory.English challenger Jack Catterall outboxed Taylor and landed more successful punches than his rival in Saturday’s bout but two of the three judges still scored in favor of the champion, who was fighting in his home country.It was Taylor’s first defense of his WBA, WBC, IBF and WBO belts.TRACK AND FIELDWELLINGTON, New Zealand (AP) — Two-time Olympic women’s shot put champion Valerie Adams has announced her retirement at the age of 37.Adams also won Olympic silver and bronze medals and was a four-time world champion, a four-time world indoor champion and three-time Commonwealth Games champion.One of 18 children of a Tonga-born mother and England-born father, Adams is a sister of the Memphis Grizzlies basketball star Stephen Adams. A sister, Lisa Adams, was a shot put gold medalist at the Tokyo Paralympics last year.___More AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/apf-sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports