Nonfiction 1. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)2. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)3. Finding Tamika by Erika Alexander, Kevin Hart, Charlamagne Tha God, Ben Arnon, Rebkah Howard, David Person, James T. Green, SBH Productions and Color Farm Media, narrated by Erika Alexander (Audible Originals)4. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 5. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) 6. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 7. One Damn Thing After Another by William P. Barr, narrated by Mark Deakins (HarperAudio)8. 12 Rules for Life by Jordan B. Peterson, narrated by the author (Random House Canada)9. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)ADVERTISEMENT10. Unf--k Your Brain by Faith G. Harper, PhD LPC-S ACS ACN, narrated by the author (Blackstone Audio, Inc.)Fiction1. Impact Winter by Travis Beacham, performed by full cast (Audible Originals)EntertainmentH.E.R. does juggling act with concert tours, acting, GrammysOlivia Rodrigo, BTS, Billie Eilish to perform at GrammysDwayne Johnson credits females in his life for shaping himEU regulators clear Amazon's $8.45 billion purchase of MGM2. Run, Rose, Run by James Patterson and Dolly Parton, narrated by Dolly Parton, Kelsea Ballerini, James Fouhey, Kevin T. Collins, Peter Ganim, Luis Moreno, Soneela Nankani, Ronald Peet, Robert Petkoff, Ella Turenne and Emily Woo Zeller (Little, Brown & Company)3. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)4. The Reunion by Meghan Quinn, narrated by Lidia Dornet, Teddy Hamilton, Laurie West, Rock Engle, CJ Bloom and Stephen Borne (Brilliance Audio)5. Family Money by Chad Zunker, narrated by Kris Koscheski (Brilliance Audio)6. The Paris Apartment by Lucy Foley, narrated by Clare Corbett, Daphne Kouma, Julia Winwood, Sope Dirisu, Sofia Zervudachi and Charlie Anson (HarperAudio)7. Shadows Reel by C. J. Box, narrated by David Chandler (Recorded Books)8. Unmissing by Minka Kent, narrated by Carly Robins and Jane Oppenheimer (Brilliance Audio)9. The Golden Couple by Greer Hendricks and Sarah Pekkanen, narrated by Karissa Vacker and Marin Ireland (Macmillan Audio)10. Moment in Time by Suzanne Redfearn, narrated by Jesse Vilinsky (Brilliance Audio)