RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — Martin Necas scored with 9:38 remaining to give the Carolina Hurricanes their first lead of the game in a 3-2 win over the Seattle Kraken on Sunday night.Nino Niederreiter and Tevuo Teravainen scored second-period goals on power plays for the Hurricanes, who stretched their home-ice points streak to 11 games. Antti Raanta made 28 saves. Alex Wennberg and Calle Jarnkrok scored for the Kraken, who have lost on back-to-back nights to begin a five-game road trip. Phillipp Grubauer stopped 30 shots, but lost his eight straight (0-7-1).Necas had gone 18 games without a goal, last scoring Jan. 15. He found the puck as it bounced near a cluster of players, falling away from the crease as he fired his shot for his ninth goal of the season.Wennberg opened the scoring just 3:12 into the second period. Niederreiter countered for the Hurricanes about four minutes later.ADVERTISEMENTIt took the Kraken just 66 seconds after that to go back ahead when Jarnkrok took advantage of a Carolina turnover and converted it into his second goal in the last three games.Teravainen tied the score with 2:38 remaining in the second period.NHLNecas breaks scoring drought as Hurricanes top KrakenRobertson's 2nd straight hat trick lifts Stars over Wild 6-3Robertson gets another hat trick to lead Stars past WildAthanasiou, Petersen team up in Kings' 3-0 win over SabresGAMES THEY PLAYTeravainen, a left wing, appeared in his 500th NHL game, with the last 385 with Carolina.Meanwhile for the Kraken, defenseman Mark Giordano was fresh off a milestone, perhaps embarking on another. He was on the ice again a night after playing in his 1,000th game in Washington.ANDERSEN AILINGFrederik Andersen, who’s Carolina’s top goalie, was a scratch with what has been described as a day-to-day ailment. Alex Lyon was recalled from the American Hockey League and served as the backup.Andersen has been in the nets only once in a four-game period, marking the first time this season he has been that inactive across a stretch that long. He entered March with an NHL-leading win total and now holds a 29-8-2 record.Raanta appeared in consecutive games for just the third time this season.UP NEXTKraken: At Toronto on Tuesday night.Hurricanes: Host Colorado on Thursday night.