ARCHERYWorld Archery banned Russia and Belarus athletes and officials.ATHLETICSRussia and Belarus athletes and officials barred from World Athletics Series events, including world race walking team championships in Oman this weekend, the world indoor championships in Serbia this month, and the world championships in Eugene, Oregon, in July. AUTO RACINGFIA banned Russia and Belarus teams from all international events. Individual Russia and Belarus drivers and officials allowed to enter races as neutrals under FIA flag, without their national symbols, flags, colors and anthems. FIA elected officers suspended. Formula One canceled the Russian Grand Prix in Sochi in September and canceled contract with race. Intercontinental Drifting Cup in Sochi in June canceled.BADMINTONRussia and Belarus athletes and officials banned from Badminton World Federation tournaments from March 8. All BWF events in Russia and Belarus canceled. A few Russian players at two Para events in Spain this week and next week allowed to compete as neutrals with no national flags, anthems.ADVERTISEMENTBASEBALLWorld Baseball Softball Confederation banned Russia and Belarus athletes and officials.Russia-Ukraine warRussia-Ukraine War: What to know on Russia's war in Ukraine Russia's invasion of Ukraine leaves global trade in tattersUkrainian drone enthusiasts sign up to repel Russian forces'I love Berlin': Jewish refugee kids reach safety in GermanyBASKETBALLRussia teams and officials barred by International Basketball Federation. Russia excluded from Women’s Basketball World Cup in Australia in September. EuroLeague suspended Russian clubs CSKA Moscow, UNICS Kazan, and Zenit St. Petersburg. EuroCup suspended Lokomotiv Kuban Krasnodar. EuroLeague Women suspended Russian clubs UMMC Ekaterinburg, Dynamo Kursk and MBA Moscow.CANOEINGInternational Canoe Federation banned Russia and Belarus athletes and officials.SPORT CLIMBINGInternational Federation of Sport Climbing banned Russia and Belarus athletes and officials. Boulder and Speed World Cup in Moscow in April to be relocated.CURLINGWorld Curling Federation banned Russia, excluding it from women’s world championship in Canada this month and men’s world championship in Las Vegas in April. European championships in Perm, Russia, in November to be relocated.CYCLINGInternational Cycling Union banned Russia and Belarus national teams and professional teams. All UCI events in Russia and Belarus canceled. Russia and Belarus pro riders allowed on non-Russian and Belarusian teams. Russia and Belarus individual riders allowed, if authorized, as neutrals without national flags, emblems.EQUESTRIANInternational Equestrian Federation canceled all remaining events this year in Russia (51) and Belarus (six), including the Eurasian Championships in Moscow in July.FENCINGInternational Fencing Federation banned Russia and Belarus athletes and officials. Events in Russia and Belarus canceled or to be relocated. FIE president Alisher Usmanov, a Russian, stepped aside.GYMNASTICSADVERTISEMENTInternational Gymnastics Federation banned Russia and Belarus athletes and officials from March 7. World Cup and World Challenge Cup events in Russia and Belarus canceled, including acrobatics World Cup in Oktyabrskiy, Russia, in May, and trampoline World Cup in St. Petersburg in September.FIELD HOCKEYRussia excluded from Women’s Junior World Cup in South Africa in April.ICE HOCKEYRussia and Belarus banned from International Ice Hockey Federation events. Russia men out of world championship in May. World junior championships in Russia in 2023 relocated to Serbia. NHL suspended all business dealings in Russia. Finland’s Jokerit club withdrew from Kontinental Hockey League conference quarterfinals.JUDOInternational Judo Federation canceled all tournaments in Russia, including Kazan Grand Slam in May. Russian judokas can compete under IJF flag, logo and anthem. IJF suspended Russian President Vladimir Putin as honorary president and ambassador. Sergey Soloveychik, Russian president of the European Judo Union, resigned.KARATEKarate 1-Premier League event in Moscow in October to be relocated.MODERN PENTATHLONRussia and Belarus athletes and officials banned from International Modern Pentathlon Union events.ROWINGRussia and Belarus athletes and officials banned from World Rowing events.RUGBYRussia and Belarus suspended by World Rugby and Rugby Europe from all internationals and cross-border club events. Russia men’s team barred from Rugby Europe Championship and qualifying for the 2023 Rugby World Cup. Russia women’s team barred from Rugby Europe Championship, sevens world series, and qualifying for the Rugby World Cup Sevens in South Africa in September. Russian Rugby Union membership of World Rugby suspended. Russia and Belarus Rugby Union membership of Rugby Europe suspended.SAILINGWorld Sailing banned Russia and Belarus athletes and officials.SHOOTINGRussia and Belarus athletes barred from International Shooting Sport Federation events. European championships in Moscow in August to be relocated.SKATEBOARDINGWorld Skate ruled Russia and Belarus individuals and teams to compete as neutrals without country flags, symbols, colors and anthems. No events to be organized in Russia and Belarus.SKATINGRussia and Belarus banned from International Skating Union events, including world speed skating championships in Norway this week and world figure skating championships in France this month.SKIINGInternational Ski Federation banned Russia and Belarus athletes to end of season. All events in Russia to end of season canceled or relocated. World Cup cancellations included ski cross in Sunny Valley last weekend, aerials in Yaroslavl last week and Moscow this Saturday; moguls in Kuzbass this weekend; cross-country in Tyumen this month; and women’s ski jumping in Nizhny Tagil and Chaikovsky this month.SOCCERFIFA and UEFA suspended Russia national teams and clubs from all competitions. National men’s team barred from World Cup qualifying playoffs this month. UEFA barred Belarus from staging international games.Champions League final in May relocated from St. Petersburg to Paris. Spartak Moscow barred from Europa League last 16.UEFA canceled sponsorship from Russian energy company Gazprom which covered Champions League, UEFA national team competitions and the 2024 European Championship.SQUASHWorld junior championships in St. Petersburg, Russia, in August to be relocated.SURFINGInternational Surfing Association banned Russia athletes and officials.SWIMMINGFINA allowing Russia and Belarus athletes and officials to compete as neutrals with no country flag, colors or symbols. FINA Order awarded to Russian President Vladimir Putin withdrawn. World junior championships in Kazan, Russia, in August canceled. Diving world series in Kazan in April canceled.TABLE TENNISInternational Table Tennis Federation banned Russia and Belarus athletes and officials.TAEKWONDOWorld Taekwondo and European Taekwondo Union will not organize or recognize any events in Russia and Belarus. Russia and Belarus flags and anthems banned at all international events. World Taekwondo withdrew honorary 9th dan black belt conferred on Russian President Vladimir Putin.TENNISInternational Tennis Federation canceled all events in Russia and Belarus. Russia and Belarus withdrawn from Davis Cup and Billie Jean King Cup. Russian Tennis Federation and Belarus Tennis Federation membership of ITF suspended. ATP-WTA Kremlin Cup in Moscow in October suspended. Russia and Belarus players to compete on tours as neutrals without national flags.TRIATHLONWorld Triathlon banned Russia and Belarus athletes and officials.VOLLEYBALLMen’s world championship in Russia in August to be relocated. Volleyball National League games in Russia in June and July to be relocated.WEIGHTLIFTINGEuropean youth championships in Kazan, Russia, in August to be relocated.WINTER SPORTSInternational Biathlon Union banned Russia and Belarus athletes and officials.International Bobsleigh and Skeleton Federation suspended Bobsleigh Federation of Russia to July.International Luge Federation banned Russia athletes and officials, suspended Russian elected officers, and barred Russia from staging events.WRESTLINGUnited World Wrestling banned Russia and Belarus athletes and officials.OTHERWinter Paralympics in Beijing banned Russia and Belarus. International Paralympic Committee withdrew Paralympic Honor from Russian President Vladimir Putin.World Games in Birmingham, Alabama, in July banned Russia and Belarus.International Olympic Committee withdrew Olympic Order from Russian President Vladimir Putin.European Olympic Committee banned Russia and Belarus athletes and officials from Winter European Youth Olympic Festival in Vuokatti, Finland, this month.SportAccord World Sport and Business Summit in Yekaterinburg, Russia, in May canceled.EA Sports removing Russian clubs and national team from FIFA 22 video game.___More AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/apf-sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports