BENGALURU, India (AP) — Ravichandran Ashwin and Jasprit Bumrah shared seven wickets as India beat Sri Lanka by 238 runs in the pink-ball second test to seal a 2-0 series victory on Monday.Chasing 447 to win on the third day, Sri Lanka was bowled out for 208 after tea. Skipper Dimuth Karunarante provided the lone resistance with his 14th test century.Off-spinner Ashwin finished with 4-55, paceman Bumrah took 3-23 to add to his five-wicket haul in the first innings, and Axar Patel picked up 2-37.Karunaratne (107) batted defiantly on a tough pitch, hitting 15 fours in 174 deliveries as he became the first player to score a century in the fourth innings of a day-night test. The 2-0 sweep means India has won 15 consecutive test series on home soil and is now fourth in the world championship table.“It has been a good run,” captain Rohit Sharma said. “We wanted to achieve a few things as a team and we did that. It is only the third day-night test in India so we are still learning how to handle these conditions. The crowd coming back and celebrating with us has been so pleasing.”ADVERTISEMENTIndia’s Shreyas Iyer was named man of the match after scoring 92 in the first innings and 67 in the second.SportsMarch Madness brings back feel of the good ol' daysTom Brady is returning to Tampa to play 23rd season in NFLNBA-leading Suns rout Lakers; James reaches 10,000 assistsLahiri ahead by shot as Players moves closer to conclusion“I saw the batters struggling so I knew I had to be attacking and put the pressure back on the bowlers,” Iyer said. “I didn’t worry about the hundred, I just wanted to bat as many balls as possible in the second innings. I have always dreamt about playing test cricket for India. It is a good feeling to come and contribute, and I want to keep this going.”Rishabh Pant was named man of the series for his scintillating knocks and exceptional glove work. He scored 96 in Mohali and followed up with 50 off 31 balls in Bengaluru, the quickest test half-century by an India batsman.“I’ve made mistakes in the past and I want to keep improving,” Pant said. “The wicket here was difficult to play, so I thought I should look for quick runs. In both (batting and wicketkeeping), it is important to keep evolving.___More AP cricket: https://apnews.com/hub/cricket and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports