NORTH CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP) — All city employees in South Carolina’s third-largest municipality will get salary increases in an effort to offset the high number of staff vacancies.The North Charleston City Council on Thursday unanimously approved a one-time increase that raises all full-time salaries by $2,000. The panel also agreed to make the minimum pay $15 per hour for all part-time staff, The Post and Courier of Charleston reported.The pay raises go into effect April 4. The increases do not include the salaries and stipends of elected officials.The decision to increase salaries also makes the entry level pay for North Charleston police the highest in the state, city officials said.Mayor Keith Summey said labor shortage has been an issue nationally for the private and public sectors. One of the best ways to combat the problem is by raising pay, he said.ADVERTISEMENT“We’re trying to put the pay level up to where it’s competitive,” Summey said.BusinessCrypto for Ukraine provides a flow of war-related assistanceAmazon tries to stave off union drive on two frontsChina says no survivors in plane crash with 132 on boardInsider Q&A: Ex-Google AI skeptic Timnit Gebru starts anewNorth Charleston employs just over 900 full-time staff members and 115 part-time employees, the city said. The city is currently advertising for 32 job openings. The police force, which is short 20 officers, has especially struggled with hiring new candidates, the mayor said.It’s rare North Charleston is fully staffed, but the city hopes the pay bump will make it easier to attract new hires. City officials said the pay raise puts entry-level salaries in the police department at $48,000, the highest starting salary for officers in the state.Chief Reggie Burgess told the City Council he’d spent much of the day recruiting potential police officers at South Carolina State University. “What you all have done has really helped the police department attract individuals we need to serve the city,” Burgess said.The city’s minimum pay for full-time staff has been $15 per hour for several years, but the recent decision to make it the minimum pay for part-time staff will help set the tone for other local employers, Summey said.“We have to set the example by being competitive in the pay we offer our employees,” he said. “It’s hard for us to ask other people in the region to hire people if we’re not willing to set the example of how they should be paid.”The increases will cost the city $1.8 million, which will come from the city’s general fund.Councilwoman Dot Williams applauded the city’s decision. She pointed out the fact that employees are getting more money without the city having to raise property taxes.“We have been blessed with a good year of revenues coming in,” Summey said. “We need to share it with our employees.”