___Fed’s rate hikes threaten its goal of narrowing racial gapsWASHINGTON (AP) — America’s hiring boom of the past year has narrowed racial disparities in unemployment. Yet the Federal Reserve’s ongoing interest rate hikes — shaping up to be the steepest in 15 years — threaten to reverse that progress. The Fed’s increases will mean higher borrowing rates that could hobble America’s job market and undercut a goal the Fed unveiled two years ago: Keep rates ultra-low for as long as possible, to benefit disadvantaged workers who often don’t see strong hiring gains until late in a recovery. Now, though, facing the worst inflation in four decades, the Fed is expected to raise its benchmark short-term rate multiple times this year and next, which could widen racial unemployment gaps.___A key inflation gauge sets 40-year high as gas and food soarWASHINGTON (AP) — An inflation gauge closely monitored by the Federal Reserve jumped 6.4% in February compared with a year ago, with sharply higher prices for food, gasoline and other necessities squeezing Americans’ finances. The figure reported Thursday by the Commerce Department was the largest year-over-year rise since January 1982. Excluding volatile prices for food and energy, so-called core inflation increased 5.4% in February from 12 months earlier.Russia-Ukraine warLive updates | Australia sending armored vehicles to UkraineUK spy chief says Russian soldiers disobey orders in UkraineKremlin demands rubles for gas, EU leaders push backWar in Ukraine fuels fears among draft-age Russian youthsADVERTISEMENT___Vote counts begin in Amazon union elections in NYC, AlabamaNEW YORK (AP) — Vote counting has begun for two separate union elections for Amazon warehouse workers. An independent group formed by former and current workers is trying to unionize a company warehouse on Staten Island, New York. Meanwhile in Bessemer, Alabama, the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union is in the midst of a re-do election to organize workers there. If a majority votes in favor of a union at either location, it would mark the first successful U.S. organizing effort in Amazon history. Organizers face an uphill battle against the nation’s second-largest private employer, which is making every effort to keep unions out.___Kremlin demands rubles for gas, leaves currency loopholeBERLIN (AP) — Russian President Vladimir Putin has issued a decree demanding payment for natural gas in rubles but appeared to temper the order by allowing dollar and euro payments through a designated bank. It got a cautious reception Thursday from European leaders who insist payment will remain in euros and dollars and want to see the fine print of how the decree will be implemented. A Kremlin decree published by state media says “unfriendly countries” can continue to pay for natural gas in foreign currency through a Russian bank that will convert the money into rubles. Putin talked tougher, saying Russia will start accepting ruble payments Friday and contracts will be stopped if buyers don’t agree to the new conditions.___EXPLAINER: What is the Strategic Petroleum Reserve?ADVERTISEMENTDALLAS (AP) — President Joe Biden is again dipping into the nation’s petroleum stockpile to try to corral rising energy prices. The White House announced Thursday that Biden ordered the release of 1 million barrels of oil per day from the strategic petroleum reserve for the next six months. The administration hopes that tapping the petroleum reserve will buy time and tamp down gasoline prices long enough until domestic producers can boost output. It’s the third time Biden has turned to the strategic petroleum reserve in a little over four months. Tapping the reserve among the few things a president can do alone to try to control inflation.___Stocks end lower, ending market’s worst quarter in 2 yearsA late slump left stocks decisively lower on Wall Street Thursday, wrapping up the worst quarter for the market since the pandemic broke out two years ago. Despite posting a gain in March, a dismal January and February left U.S. indexes lower for the year to date. The S&P 500 ended the day 1.6% lower, bringing its loss since the beginning of the year to 4.9%. Benchmark U.S. crude oil sank 7% after President Joe Biden ordered the release of up to 1 million barrels of oil per day from the nation’s strategic petroleum reserve. Treasury yields fell.___OPEC sticks to modest boost in oil despite war jittersLONDON (AP) — OPEC and allied oil producers including Russia have decided to stick to a modest increase in the amount of crude it pumps to the world. The move Thursday supports higher prices even as the Biden administration readies an attempt to lower them by releasing oil from strategic reserves. The group, known as OPEC+, chose to stay on its schedule of gradual increases to restore production cuts made during the depths of the coronavirus pandemic in 2020. In May, OPEC said it would add 432,000 barrels per day. That’s slightly up from 400,000 barrels in previous months, with officials saying they’re revising baseline production levels.___Got a dime? Businesses seek Treasury help with coin shortageWASHINGTON (AP) — Got a spare dime? Coins are in short supply again. Retailers, laundromats and other businesses that rely on coins want Americans to empty their piggy banks and look under couch cushions for extra change and “get coin moving.” A group of trade associations that represent individual businesses including banks, retail outlets, truck stops, grocery stores and more is asking the Treasury Department for more help convincing Americans to get coins back in circulation. The consequences of the circulation slowdown hit people who don’t have an ability to pay for items electronically.___US will require valves on new pipelines to prevent disastersBILLINGS, Mont. (AP) — U.S. officials are adopting a long delayed rule aimed at reducing deaths and environmental damage from oil and gas pipeline ruptures. But safety advocates said Thursday’s move by the U.S. Transportation Department would not have averted the accidents that prompted the new rule. That’s because it applies only to new pipelines and not to hundreds of thousands of miles of lines that already crisscross the country. The rule is in response to a massive gas explosion in San Bruno, California that killed eight people in 2010 and to large oil spills into Michigan’s Kalamazoo River and Montana’s Yellowstone River.___Bargainers: Bipartisan deal near on $10B new COVID packageWASHINGTON (AP) — Lawmakers have moved to the brink of clinching a bipartisan compromise to provide a fresh $10 billion to combat COVID-19. That could set up final congressional approval next week. The price tag was a reduction from an earlier $15.6 billion compromise that fell apart weeks ago after House Democrats rejected cuts in pandemic aid to states to help pay for it. Utah Republican Sen. Mitt Romney is a lead negotiator and he says bargainers had reach an agreement in principle on a package that would be completely paid for. The new money would be to purchase vaccines, treatments and tests, which the administration says are running low, even as the more transmissible omicron variant BA.2 spreads.___The S&P 500 fell 72.04 points, or 1.6%, to 4,530.41. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 550.46 points, or 1.6%, to 34,678.35. The Nasdaq fell 221.76 points, or 1.5%, to 14,220.52. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 20.94 points, or 1%, to 2,070.13.___