NEW ORLEANS (AP) — Miles Bridges had 27 points and nine assists, Terry Rozier highlighted his 27-point performance with seven 3-pointers and the Charlotte Hornets put on a shooting exhibition to beat the undermanned New Orleans Pelicans 142-120 on Friday night.LaMelo Ball had 17 points, nine assists and three steals for Charlotte, which hit 22 3s (on 47 attempts) and shot 59.8% overall (52 of 87) to snap a two-game skid while sending New Orleans to its fourth straight loss.Trey Murphy III, the Pelicans’ first-round pick last summer, hit seven 3s and set his game high in points with 32 to go with a career-high nine rebounds. Murphy’s best game as a pro by far — his previous game-highs included 12 points and six rebounds — was a bright spot for New Orleans in a game that was not competitive down the stretch. The Pelicans entered the game missing their top two scorers because of forward Brandon Ingram’s strained right hamstring and CJ McCollum’s placement in NBA health and safety protocols.ADVERTISEMENTDevonte’ Graham scored 19 for New Orleans and Willy Hernangomez added 15 points for the Pelicans, who couldn’t stay in the game despite shooting 50% (43 of 86), including 15 of 39 (38.5%) from 3-point range.Charlotte HornetsBridges, Rozier help Hornets shoot past Pelicans, 142-120Pelicans take on the Hornets on 3-game skidDetroit visits Boston after Tatum's 44-point performanceTatum stays hot, scores 44 as Celtics beat Hornets 115-101Charlotte led 61-55 after a more closely contested first half in which Pelicans rookie Herb Jones got the crowd engaged and brought the New Orleans bench to its feet with his baseline drive for a contested dunk over Mason Plumlee.But the Hornets raced away from the Pelicans in the third quarter, when Ball produced a series of highlights.Ball’s quick-release, no-look pass a moment after he’d received the ball on a cut down the lane produced Plumlee’s uncontested dunk. On Charlotte’s next possession, Ball hit a 3 to make it 72-59. Minutes later, Ball ripped the ball away from Pelicans center Jonas Valanciunas’ near mid-court and sprinted the other way for a breakaway dunk to make it 82-63.Charlotte scored 42 points in the third quarter, during which Ball had seven points and six assists, and the Hornets took a 103-82 lead into the final period.TIP-INSHornets: Got 59 points from reserves, led by Montrezl Harrell with 16 points, Cody Martin with 15, Isaiah Thomas with 14 and Kelly Oubre Jr. 10. ... Improved to 18-1 when shooting 50% or better. ... Led by 27 points in the fourth quarter.Pelicans: Injured star forward Zion Williamson was on the bench in street clothes, attending a Pelicans game in New Orleans for the first time since leaving the club more than two months ago to rehabilitate his right foot on his own in Oregon. Williamson returned to New Orleans after being cleared for full weight-bearing activities and attended the Pelicans’ shootaround Friday morning. There remains no timeline for his return to full practice or games. ... Naji Marshall scored 14 points, Jaxson Hayes 13, Jones 12 and Valanciunas 10. UP NEXTHornets: Visit Oklahoma City on Monday night to wrap up a two-game trip. Pelicans: Host Houston on Sunday night in the third of four straight at home.___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports