1 of 5Kentucky forward Oscar Tshiebwe (34) dunks next to Florida forward Colin Castleton (12) during the first half of an NCAA college basketball game, Saturday, March 5, 2022, in Gainesville, Fla. (AP Photo/Matt Stamey)1 of 5Kentucky forward Oscar Tshiebwe (34) dunks next to Florida forward Colin Castleton (12) during the first half of an NCAA college basketball game, Saturday, March 5, 2022, in Gainesville, Fla. (AP Photo/Matt Stamey)GAINESVILLE, Fla. (AP) — Oscar Tshiebwe had 27 points and 15 rebounds for his 25th double-double of the season, and No. 7 Kentucky beat Florida 71-63 on Saturday to secure the No. 3 seed in next week’s Southeastern Conference Tournament.The Wildcats (25-6, 14-4 SEC) ended a two-game road skid in league play and won their fourth straight in Gainesville. They never trailed in this one, and Tshiebwe was a big reason why.The 6-foot-9, 255-pound forward and national player of the year candidate scored 17 of Kentucky’s 19 points over a 7 1/2-minute span that included both halves. He responded with a dunk in the first half after Florida cut a 16-point lead to six and was at his best after the break.The junior scored the team’s first 11 points of the second half — all in the paint while almost single-handily building a double-digit lead for the Wildcats. And when the Gators (19-12, 9-9) made another run late, Tshiebwe answered with a layup to make it a 10-point game with about 3 minutes to play.ADVERTISEMENTLong before then, he already had locked up his 13th consecutive double-double. Tshiebwe made 11 of 16 field goals and was perfect in five trips to the free-throw line. He added two blocks and three steals, including one that led to a three-point play.SportsWNBA's Brittney Griner arrested in Russia on drug chargesMLB talks resume Sunday; Scherzer favors playoff 'ghost win'Bueckers, No. 7 UConn women rout Hoyas in Big East quartersCone wins 4-year term as US Soccer president, beats CordeiroSahvir Wheeler added 13 points for the visitors, and Kellan Grady chipped in 11. Colin Castleton led the Gators with 23 points and 11 rebounds. Anthony Duriji added 10 points in his return from an ankle injury that sidelined him two games.The Gators had hoped a sold-out home finale and senior day would provide extra motivation against one of the league’s top teams. But not even Keyontae Johnson’s return to the court helped.Johnson, who collapsed during a game in December 2020 and hasn’t practiced or played since, got a ceremonial start. Johnson was on the floor for the first of two opening tips and left to a standing ovation after kissing the floor.Kentucky coach John Calipari was among the thousands clapping and even hugged Johnson as he checked out of the game. Johnson changed back into street clothes and assumed his usual spot on the bench.POLL IMPLICATIONSKentucky could move back into the top five in next week’s Associated Press men’s college basketball poll, depending on what happens later Saturday.BIG PICTUREKentucky: Don’t count the Wildcats out of getting a No. 1 seed in the NCAA Tournament. There’s no doubt they have the depth and talent to win the league tournament in Tampa, which could push them ahead of Auburn for one of the four top seeds. Florida: The Gators will need to win two or three games in the SEC Tournament to make a fifth consecutive NCAA field. It’s a big ask for a team that has been so inconsistent all season.UP NEXTKentucky gets an extended break before opening play in the SEC Tournament on Friday.Florida will play Thursday in the tournament and likely needs a deep run to make the NCAA field.___More AP college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/college-basketball and https://apnews.com/hub/ap-top-25-college-basketball-poll and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25