CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) — Virginia named Amaka “Mox” Agugua-Hamilton, the women’s coach at Missouri State the past three seasons, as its basketball coach on Monday.Athletic director Carla Williams made the announcement. Agugua-Hamilton replaces Tina Thompson, who was fired on March 3 after her fourth season.Agugua-Hamilton compiled a 74-15 record with the Lady Bears, who won Missouri Valley Conference regular-season titles in 2020 and 2021 and competed in the past two NCAA Tournaments. Missouri State had a 26-4 record in Agugua-Hamilton’s first year as coach, when the NCAA Tournament was canceled because of the coronavirus pandemic.“We are thrilled and very fortunate to have recruited Coach Mox to UVA,” Williams said in a statement released by the school. “She is a gifted teacher, a skilled tactician of the game and a person who cares deeply about her players and vice versa. Her teams play with tremendous tenacity and confidence.”ADVERTISEMENTA Virginia native who played at Oakton High School in Herndon, Agugua-Hamilton guided the Lady Bears to nine wins against Power Five programs in her time at Missouri State, including a 61-50 victory against Florida State in the First Four of this year’s tournament. They reached the Sweet 16 of last year’s tournament before falling to Stanford, the No. 1 overall seed.Women's college basketballGreen hired as Illinois' coach following success at DaytonUVA hires Missouri State's Agugua-Hamilton as women's coachWeekend Sports in BriefSouth Dakota women shock Baylor 61-47 at No. 2 seed's home“I am overjoyed and thankful for this tremendous opportunity to lead this group of young women at one of the best academic and athletic institutions in the country,” Agugua-Hamilton said. “I was immediately drawn in by Carla Williams’ vision for the women’s basketball program and the athletic department as a whole. I am certain I will thrive under her leadership. As a Virginia native, UVA is a dream come true for me. I could not be more excited to be HOME!”Agugua-Hamilton played at Hofstra, where she was a four-year captain and still holds the program’s career field-goal percentage record. Her prior coaching stops include two years each at VCU, Indiana and Old Dominion and six years at Michigan State, the last four as associate head coach.___More AP women’s college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/womens-college-basketball and https://apnews.com/hub/ap-top-25-womens-college-basketball-poll and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25