Oklahoma City Thunder (21-53, 14th in the Western Conference) vs. Portland Trail Blazers (27-47, 12th in the Western Conference)Portland, Oregon; Monday, 10 p.m. EDTBOTTOM LINE: Portland will try to stop its three-game losing streak when the Trail Blazers play Oklahoma City.The Trail Blazers have gone 1-12 against division opponents. Portland gives up 114.6 points and has been outscored by 7.5 points per game.The Thunder are 4-9 against opponents from the Northwest Division. Oklahoma City currently has the league’s worst offense, averaging just 103.4 points per game.The two teams play for the third time this season. The Thunder defeated the Trail Blazers 96-93 in their last matchup on Feb. 5. Luguentz Dort led the Thunder with 23 points, and CJ McCollum led the Trail Blazers with 19 points.TOP PERFORMERS: Anfernee Simons is scoring 17.3 points per game with 2.6 rebounds and 3.9 assists for the Trail Blazers. Trendon Watford is averaging 16.4 points, 5.9 rebounds and 3.1 assists over the last 10 games for Portland.ADVERTISEMENTJosh Giddey is averaging 12.5 points, 7.8 rebounds and 6.4 assists for the Thunder. Shai Gilgeous-Alexander is averaging 27.9 points over the last 10 games for Oklahoma City.Portland Trail BlazersTrail Blazers take on the Thunder on 3-game skidNets rout reeling Heat as East playoff races grows tighterSengun scores 27 as Rockets beat Trail Blazers againPortland faces conference rival HoustonLAST 10 GAMES:INJURIES: Trail Blazers: Nassir Little: out for season (shoulder), Josh Hart: out (knee), Jusuf Nurkic: out (foot), Didi Louzada: out (kne), Damian Lillard: out for season (abdominal), Eric Bledsoe: out (achilles), Anfernee Simons: out (knee), Joe Ingles: out for season (knee), Justise Winslow: out (calf).Thunder: Josh Giddey: out (hip), Ty Jerome: out for season (hip), Kenrich Williams: out (knee), Jeremiah Robinson-Earl: out (foot), Derrick Favors: out (back), Mike Muscala: out for season (ankle), Shai Gilgeous-Alexander: day to day (ankle), Luguentz Dort: out for season (shoulder).___The Associated Press created this story using technology provided by Data Skrive and data from Sportradar.