RENTON, Wash. (AP) — The Seattle Seahawks retained one of their most important free agents, agreeing to terms with free safety Quandre Diggs on a new contract, according to a person with knowledge of the deal. The person spoke to The Associated Press on Monday on the condition of anonymity because the team had not announced the signing. NFL Network first reported the agreement of a three-year deal worth up to $40 million for Diggs. Diggs was one of a few moves by Seattle with its own pool of free agents.Tight end Will Dissly is returning to the Seahawks after agreeing to terms on a three-year deal worth up to $24 million according to another person with knowledge of the deal.The agency for veteran defensive tackle Al Woods tweeted that he would be returning to the Seahawks. Woods was a standout on Seattle’s defensive line last season and could play in several different spots on the defensive front with the Seahawks expected to shift to more of a 3-4 scheme. ADVERTISEMENTNFL Network also reported that Seattle agreed to a one-year deal with cornerback Sidney Jones. Seattle SeahawksAP source: Safety Quandre Diggs returning to SeahawksColin Kaepernick still wants to play in NFL, seeks receiversSeahawks look to be on rebuild path after trade of WilsonChampion Rams' model for success isn't easy to replicateRetaining Diggs was a major victory for Seattle, especially coming off a second consecutive Pro Bowl season. Diggs had a career-high 94 tackles and tied his career high with five interceptions. Diggs has 13 interceptions in 38 regular-season games since being acquired from Detroit midway through the 2019 season. Diggs suffered a dislocated ankle and broken fibula in the closing minutes of the season finale in Arizona that required surgery in the days after the season ended. He’s expected to be cleared for activity well before the start of training camp this summer. There was a thought that Seattle would be unable to match what Diggs might get on the open market and that using the franchise tag of $12.9 million may have been the best way to retain the safety. Instead, Seattle was able to keep Diggs locked up for several more seasons.Woods, who will turn 35 later this month, returned to Seattle last season after opting out of the 2020 season because of family and COVID-19 concerns. Largely asked to be a run-stuffer and clog the middle of the line of scrimmage mostly on early downs, Woods had a career-high 50 tackles while also adding 1½ sacks. Woods has the versatility to play multiple tackle positions on the defensive line and has been lauded by coaches and teammates for his presence in the locker room. Dissly is regarded as one of the best blocking tight ends in the league and with the addition of Noah Fant as part of the Russell Wilson trade should solidify the position for the Seahawks. Dissly played in 15 games last season and had 21 catches for 231 yards and one touchdown. ADVERTISEMENTJones was a 2017 second-round pick by Philadelphia who had struggled in his previous stops with the Eagles and in Jacksonville. Seattle acquired Jones just before the start of last season and he ended up setting a career high in games played (16), starts (11), tackles (66) and pass breakups (10). With Jones and Diggs returning, Seattle seems to have the majority of its secondary set with cornerback D.J. Reed the only remaining free agent among the primary starters from last season. ___More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/hub/nfl and https://apnews.com/hub/pro-32 and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL