MONTPELIER, Vt. (AP) — A president has been named for the newly established Vermont State University, which consolidates three state institutions, the Vermont State College System board announced Monday. Parwinder Grewal most recently served in leadership roles at the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, a new university created through the merger of three institutions, the Vermont college system said. He has accepted the position effective July 1, officials said. Vermont State University — comprised of Castleton University, Northern Vermont University and Vermont Technical College — will welcome its first class in the fall of 2023. Consolidation talks started in 2020 during the coronavirus pandemic, as increasing costs and declining student enrollment exacerbated the college system’s financial challenges.Grewal has also served as department head of entomology and plant pathology at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville, and as a distinguished professor of entomology at Ohio State University, the college system said. At Ohio State, he was the founding director of the Center for Urban Environment and Economic Development and of the Urban Landscape Ecology Program. ScienceNASA moon rocket faces more flight delays as repairs mountChina sending up next space station crew in JuneClimate toll on Arctic bases: Sunken runways, damaged roadsPandas devour ice cake to celebrate 50 years at National ZooADVERTISEMENT“We are excited for Parwinder Grewal to chart this new path for higher education in Vermont,” Sophie Zdatny, chancellor of the Vermont State Colleges System, said in a statement. “Dr. Grewal brings a passion for engaging students, a commitment to strong relationships with faculty and staff, and robust experience building university-community partnerships to Vermont State University.”Grewal has a bachelor’s degree in agriculture and a master’s degree in plant pathology from Punjab Agricultural University in India, and a doctorate in zoology from Imperial College London.He will also serve as president of Castleton and Northern Vermont universities as well as Vermont Technical College for the 2022-2023 academic year as they transition to Vermont State University, which will officially launch as a unified, singly accredited institution in July of 2023, officials said.