MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Reigning AL Cy Young Award winner Robbie Ray tossed seven impressive innings in his Seattle debut, Mitch Haniger homered and the Mariners opened with a 2-1 win over the Minnesota Twins on Friday.Ray (1-0) surrendered just three hits, walked four and struck out five. He made the opening day start after leaving Toronto and signing a five-year, $115 million contract with Seattle. The 30-year-old left-hander was just a part of the Mariners’ big offseason overhaul that saw the team also add former All-Stars Adam Frazier, Jesse Winker, Eugenio Suárez and Sergio Romo.Drew Steckenrider allowed a leadoff hit in the ninth but secured the save after Gary Sánchez hit a towering flyball to the left-field wall.Haniger is the longest-tenured Mariners player, having started with them in 2017. He connected for a two-run homer in the first inning off rookie Joe Ryan.ADVERTISEMENTCarlos Correa singled in his first at-bat for Minnesota after signing his surprise three-year, $105.3 million contract. He added a diving stop at shortstop to save a run, but he and Byron Buxton – who got a seven-year, $100 million extension in the offseason – combined to leave eight runners on as the first two batters in the lineup.MLBJudge, Yankees fail to agree to long-term contractWander Franco has 3 hits, Rays win opener over Orioles 2-1Schwarber goes deep for Phillies in 9-5 win over AthleticsBáez single, game-ending review lifts Tigers over White SoxGio Urshela, who arrived in the trade that sent Josh Donaldson to the New York Yankees, hit a solo homer for the Twins.Ryan (0-1) struggled with his control on a chilly day in Minnesota.The original opener Thursday was pushed back a day because of a rain-snow mix and cold temperatures. The sun was shining Friday but the first-pitch temperature was 45 degrees.Ryan, who walked five and didn’t hit a batter in 26 2/3 innings last year, walked four and hit a batter against the Mariners. He gave up two hits and two runs in four innings while becoming the first Twins rookie to start on opening day since Tom Hall in 1969.FIVE MORE YEARSThe Mariners signed shortstop J.P. Crawford to a $51 million, five-year contract before the game. Crawford, 27, had agreed last month to a $4.85 million, one-year deal and would have been eligible for free agency after the 2024 season. He’s been a standout defensive player since being acquired by the Mariners before the start of the 2019 season. He won a Gold Glove in 2020 and was a finalist for the award last season.TRAINER’S ROOMMariners: Seattle started with OF Kyle Lewis (right meniscus), 1B Evan White (sports hernia), RHP Ken Giles (right middle finger sprain) and RHP Casey Sadler (right shoulder labrum) on the injured list.Twins: RHPs Kenta Maeda (Tommy John surgery recovery), Randy Dobnak (right middle finger strain) and Cody Stashak (right biceps tendinitis) start on the injured list. Maeda and Dobnak are on the 60-day list. UP NEXTRHP Logan Gilbert (6-4, 4.68 ERA in 2021) will start Saturday afternoon against Minnesota, which counters with its big offseason pitching addition, RHP Sonny Gray (7-9, 4.19 ERA in 2021).___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports