The Pittsburgh Pirates are building around third baseman Ke’Bryan Hayes.A person with knowledge of the agreement tells The Associated Press the Pirates and Hayes have come to terms on a new eight-year, $70 million deal pending the 25-year-old Hayes passing a physical. The person spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity because a formal announcement isn’t expected until the team’s home opener on April 12.Hayes batted third in Pittsburgh’s season opener in St. Louis on Thursday but left with an apparent injury in the first inning to his left hand or wrist. He was limited to 96 games last year due to a left wrist injury.Hayes was scheduled to hit third in Pittsburgh’s season opener in St. Louis on Thursday.The deal gives the team some stability as they continue a methodical build-up under general manager Ben Cherington. Hayes, the son of former major leaguer Charlie Hayes and a first-round pick in the 2015 amateur draft, reached the big leagues in 2020.ADVERTISEMENTHayes entered the 2022 season hitting .280 in 120 career games. Known for his strong defensive play, Hayes made a splash upon his arrival in September 2020, winning Rookie of the Month during an electric debut. He struggled in 2021 amid the wrist issue.MLBBraves' Acuña describes feelings for Freeman as 'nothing'Nats DH Cruz, other Clemente Award winners wear '21' on capsHouston Astros sign closer Pressly to two-year dealIan Happ gets 3 hits as Cubs beat Brewers 5-4 on opening dayThe contact also gives a fan base growing antsy after three straight last-place finishes a player to attach itself to. The Pirates are still in a transition period, with most of the prospects they’ve accumulated since Cherington took over in the fall of 2019 still at least a year or two from arriving in Pittsburgh. The Pirates are expected to finish at or near the bottom of the NL Central again with a largely unheralded and inexpensive roster. Cherington has said repeatedly that the team will start making investments when it believes it is close to winning, and the agreement with Hayes provides the first tangible evidence of a long-term plan at the big-league level.The contract, which goes into effect this season carries through at least 2029 and includes an option for 2030.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports