WELLINGTON, New Zealand (AP) — Wallabies prop James Slipper has celebrated his 150th match for the ACT Brumbies in a 33-17 win over the Fijian Drua in Super Rugby Pacific.The win was the Brumbies’ seventh in eight matches this season and left them atop the championship table with only one round remaining before cross-border matches begin between Australian and New Zealand teams.In New Zealand, the Auckland-based Blues beat the Hamilton-based Chiefs 25-0 and the Christchurch-based Crusaders edged the Wellington-based Hurricanes 24-21 to hold on to second and third places.Slipper looked back after Saturday’s match to his inauspicious first appearance in Super Rugby in 2010.“I remember my debut, I got dropped after it,” he said.Slipper went on quickly to win a Super Rugby title with the Queensland Reds in 2011“As a young bloke, I was pretty lucky. I won a premiership pretty early in my career and that’s one of the greatest things I have done,” Slipper said. “It is a moment I have been chasing again for a long time since.”ADVERTISEMENTSlipper moved from the Reds to the Brumbies in a 2018 after a troubled period in his life when he tested positive for drugs and was suspended and cut by the Reds. But he has revived his career in Canberra and now hopes for another Super Rugby title with an ascendant Brumbies team.RugbyWins for Crusaders, ACT Brumbies and Blues in Super RugbyHighlanders beat Moana Pasifika in Super RugbyJapan's top rugby league remains a magnet for top playersAll Blacks bolster coaching lineup ahead of Ireland tests“It’s been a journey hasn’t it,” Slipper said. “A few challenges along the way but I’ve really enjoyed my time in the sport and I feel like I’m still going well.“I’ve got a couple more years here at the Brumbies and some big games coming up after the bye. We’ve got the Kiwis and I’m pretty pumped for that.”The Blues are in second place after eight rounds and after six straight wins. Their 25-0 win over the Chiefs on Saturday marked the first time the Chiefs have been held scoreless in a Super Rugby match.“We started off really well and then the last two or three weeks, we’ve had a little bit of a rollercoaster,” Chiefs coach Clayton McMillan said. “We’ve certainly had our ups but we’ve well and truly had our downs. What is there, six, seven games left?”The Blues won in spite of receiving three of the four yellow cards handed out in the match. Two in quick succession late in the first half left them with only 13 men on either side of halftime.The Crusaders hung on to a three-point lead for 33 minutes to beat the Hurricanes 24-21 in Wellington. The Hurricanes had a late penalty which could have tied the scores and send the match into golden point extra time.They decided instead to kick for touch in the hope of a match-winning try. Crusaders captain Scott Barrett contested the ball in the air with Hurricanes captain Ardie Savea and the match ended moments later with Savea protesting that his team should have received another penalty. “As a leader, I like to put pressure on and demand from the officials, making sure they’re doing everything they can to get these calls right,” Savea said. “So, without sounding disrespectful, I just would love to have the officials demand better.”___More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports