___US economy shrinks, threats loom, but growth likely to lastWASHINGTON (AP) — The U.S. economy shrank last quarter for the first time since the pandemic recession struck two years ago, contracting at a 1.4% annual rate, but consumers and businesses kept spending in a sign of economic durability. The economy’s overall decline in the January-March quarter does not mean a recession is likely in the coming months. Most economists expect a rebound as solid hiring and wage gains sustain growth. Instead, the steady spending by households and companies suggests that the economy will likely keep expanding this year even though the Federal Reserve plans to raise rates aggressively to fight inflation. The first quarter was hampered mainly by a slower restocking of goods and by a sharp drop in exports.___Apple’s revenue, profit top analyst views in latest quarterADVERTISEMENTSAN RAMON, Calif. (AP) — Apple on Thursday reported quarterly results that topped analysts’ profit projections despite supply shortages, economic fallout from the Russia-Ukraine war and a growth slowdown from the huge sales lift that technology products and service got from pandemic restrictions. The results for the January-March period drew a picture of a still-expanding empire generating massive profits that have yielded the firm a $2.7 trillion market value -- the largest among U.S. companies. Apple announced a 5% increase in its quarterly dividend, which has been steadily rising since the company revived the payment a decade ago.Russia-Ukraine warLive updates | Russia-Ukraine WarA chilling Russian cyber aim in Ukraine: Digital dossiersAfter a rocket: 'One second and you are left with nothing'  Biden seeks $33B for Ukraine, signaling long-term commitment___Putin gas cutoff shakes up Europe at little cost to KremlinBRUSSELS (AP) — Russian President Vladimir Putin is putting pressure on European governments with his proposal to pay for oil and gas in rubles. That pressure has ratcheted up after Poland and Bulgaria were cut off for not going along with the plan. It didn’t cost Putin much, but now countries are wondering who might be next. The European Union’s executive commission says going along with the ruble payment plan would violate sanctions. But there’s enough wiggle room that countries worried about the economic impact of a sudden energy cutoff might play by Putin’s rules. And that could put a crack in the EU’s common front over the war in Ukraine.___California subpoenas ExxonMobil in probe of plastics wasteADVERTISEMENTSACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) — California’s attorney general has subpoenaed ExxonMobil as part of what he called a first-of-its-kind investigation into the petroleum industry for its alleged role in causing a global plastic pollution crisis. Attorney General Rob Bonta on Thursday said the industry has encouraged the development and use of petroleum-based plastic products. He says the industry has sought to minimize public understanding widespread use of plastics harms the environment and public health. Bonta says ExxonMobil was subpoenaed as a major source of global plastics pollution and for allegedly deceiving the public. ExxonMobil did not immediately comment. The American Chemistry Council says U.S. plastic makers are committed to a more sustainable future.___Amazon reports rare quarterly loss as online shopping slowsNEW YORK (AP) — Amazon reported its first quarterly loss since 2015 on Thursday, its money-making juggernaut stalled by a slowdown in pandemic-induced online shopping and a huge write-down of its investment in an electric-vehicle startup. The Seattle-based e-commerce giant’s stock fell almost 10% in after-hours trading. Amazon reported a loss of $3.84 billion, or $7.56 a share, for the first three months of the year. A year ago, it reported a profit of $8.1 billion, or $15.79 a share, for the first quarter. Wall Street analysts expected $8.35 a share in the latest quarter. The red ink in Amazon’s report came from the accounting for a $7.6 billion loss in value of its stock investment in Rivian Automotive.___Robinhood’s revenue fell more than expected at year’s startNEW YORK (AP) — Growth slammed into reverse at the start of this year for Robinhood Markets, whose trading app has turned millions of people into investors for the first time. The company said Thursday that it took in $299 million in revenue during the first three months of the year, down 43% from a year earlier. It also reported a net loss of $392 million. Both a drop in revenue and a net loss were expected for the quarter. But the results were worse than Wall Street analysts had forecast and shares fell more than 8% in after-hours trading.___Southwest loses $278M in Q1 but sees profitable rest of 2022DALLAS (AP) — Southwest Airlines is reporting a loss of $278 million in the first quarter but says it will be profitable the rest of 2022. Like other airlines, Southwest says travel demand is surging, and it’s hiring to increase staff before the expected summer rush. Southwest said Thursday that after a slow January and February, marred by the omicron variant of COVID-19, it made a profit in March. But the airline faces challenges from rising jet fuel prices and the cost of hiring more employees. Southwest says its work force grew by 3,300 people in the first quarter.___Drop in US GDP challenges Biden’s pitch to votersWASHINGTON (AP) — The latest report on gross domestic product is complicating President Joe Biden’s pitch that the U.S. economy is strong. It shows that the economy shrank at a 1.4% annualized rate during the first three months of this year. Biden says the drop reflects technical quirks such as businesses adding less to their inventories, while Republicans have a direct line of attack to say the problem is rooted in inflation at a 40-year high. The risk for Biden is now a muddled message going into the midterm elections at a time when voters are focused on the economy.___The S&P 500 rose 103.54 points, or 2.5%, to 4,287.50. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 614.46 points, or 1.8%, to 33,916.39. The Nasdaq rose 382.59 points, or 3.1%, to 12,871.53. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 33.91 points, or 1.8%, to 1,917.94.