ATLANTA (AP) — Garrett Cooper had three hits and two RBIs, Avisaíl García hit a go-ahead double in the fifth inning and the Miami Marlins held on to beat the Atlanta Braves 5-4 on Sunday.Miami took two of three from the defending World Series champions, droppng the Braves to their third series loss along with two ties and no wins. The Marlins have won three of their last four games.Atlanta trailed 5-1 in the ninth before Matt Olson’s sacrifice fly and Austin Riley’s two-run homer off Tanner Scott. Louis Head relieved and got his first big league save, allowing Marcell Ozuna’s double and then striking out Adam Duvall and Eddie Rosario.Jesús Luzardo (1-1) allowed one run and two hits in five innings. He gave up doubles to Riley in the first and the fourth, looking nothing like the left-hander who began the game 1-6 with a career 6.06 ERA on the road in nine starts and nine relief appearances. ADVERTISEMENTOlson grounded out with the bases loaded in the fifth, trimming the lead to 2-1. Luzardo struck out Riley with two runners in scoring position to end the inning. Luzardo struck out eight and walked four, three of them in the fifth.MLBReds stop 11-game skid, beat Cardinals 4-1 behind LodoloCole, Rizzo lead Yanks to sweep as fans heckle GuardiansGuardians rookie Kwan exits with right hamstring tightnessCole, Yanks sweep Guardians in series blighted by fan issuesA day after winning 9-7, the Marlins led 2-0 in the fifth. Jesús Aguilar led off with a walk, advanced on two groundouts and scored when Garcíadrove the ball over Orlando Arcia, and the ball popped out of the left fielder’ss glove on the warning track. García scored when Cooper, who’s reached safely in 12 of his 14 games this year, singled to Duvall, whose throw to the plate from center was a tad late.Both runs came with two outs. The Marlins stranded seven runners in the first four innings.Atlanta starter Bryce Elder (1-2) gave up two runs five hits and six walks in 4 2/3 innings.Miami went up 3-1 in the sixth when Jon Berti, who reached three times, tripled off Darren O’Day and scored on Jacob Stallings’ sacrifice fly. The lead stretched to 5-1 in the seventh on RBI doubles off A.J. Minter by Cooper and Joey Wendle, who doubled twice.Anthony Bass, the third of four Marlins relievers, needed one pitch to escape a bases-loaded jam in the seventh when Riley grounded into a double play.Atlanta dropped to 1-9 this season when the opponent scores first and 32-16 against the Marlins at Truist Park. The Braves were 1 for 12 with runners in scoring position.SWIPINGChisholm stole his fourth base in the third, making the Marlins 5 for 5 on stolen base attempts in the last two games. The Braves have allowed 13 of 14 baserunners to steal a base this season.TRAINER’S ROOMMarlins: SS Miguel Rojas was at the ballpark but missed his second straight game with flu-like symptoms. ... Stallings got hit in the back of the head by Ozuna’s bat on a swing in the fourth but stayed in the game.ADVERTISEMENTBraves: RF Ronald Acuña Jr. (recovering from knee surgery last year) went 2 for 3 with an RBI, a run scored and three walks in a rehab appearance Saturday night with Triple-A Gwinnett. Acuña is hitting .417 in four games for Gwinnett and is expected to return to the majors May 6. UP NEXTAfter an off day Monday, Marlins RHP Sandy Alcantara (1-0, 1.86 ERA) will make his fourth start of the season to open a three-game series Tuesday at Washington. Alcantara has pitched 14 consecutive scoreless innings. The Braves are off Monday and will send LHP Max Fried (1-2, 3.50) to the mound for his fourth start Tuesday as Atlanta begins a three-game home series against the Chicago Cubs. ___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/mlb and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports