WINNIPEG, Manitoba (AP) — Eric Comrie made 35 saves for his first NHL shutout in the Winnipeg Jets’ 4-0 victory over the Philadelphia Flyers on Wednesday night.“It feels really good. It’s a happy moment for myself,” Comrie said. “A lot of hard work went into that. But a lot of hard work from the guys tonight. They played a fantastic game and made it real easy for myself to see the puck and make a lot of easy saves because they were playing as good as they could.”The 26-year-old Comrie played his 27th NHL game, making his 15th start this season for Winnipeg.“We’re all happy for him,” Jets forward Kyle Connor said. “He’s the type of teammate you cheer for every single day. You see it in practices, I’m sure you guys watch it all of the time, he’s always one of the last ones off, putting in all of the work. So it’s pretty cool to see it pay off.”Kyle Connor had an empty-net goal and two assists to push his season points total to 92, the most since the franchise moved from Atlanta to to Winnipeg in 2011. Captain Blake Wheeler had 91 points in 2017-18 and 2018-19.ADVERTISEMENT“There’s been some tremendous players come before me, still on this team, playing with them,” Connor said. “It’s pretty cool. It’s something I’m sure I’ll look back on after the season. Just enjoying the win right now.”NHLAmdersson scores early in 3rd, Kings beat Kraken 5-3Canadiens beat playoff-bound Rangers 4-3 to end 9-game skidStars take final playoff spot with 4-3 OT loss to Coyotes Johnson scores in SO, Blackhawks beat Golden Knights 4-3Nikolaj Ehlers and Wheeler each had a goal and an assist, and Pierre-Luc Dubois scored his career-high 28th goal.Playing his fifth NHL game and second straight, Philadelphia’s Felix Sandstrom stopped 23 shots. The Flyers have been shut out six times this season,“I think that he’s a battler,” Flyers interim coach Mike Yeo said about Sandstrom. “Tonight, the first goal maybe he’d like to have back, but he continued to battle right through the rest of the way, so just like any young player it’s learning, making sure you’re ready right from the start of the game.”The Jets were 2 for 5 on the power play, scoring one in the first period and another in the second. The Flyers were 0 for 4.“Of course you don’t want to be too much on the (penalty kill),” Sandstrom said. “When it happens, you’ve just got to find a way to (limit) their chances and for me to come up with saves.”UP NEXTFlyers: Host Ottawa on Friday night in their season finale.Jets: Host Calgary on Friday night.