NEW YORK (AP) — Max Domi scored the go-ahead goal early in the third period and the Carolina Hurricanes got help from a rookie goaltender, boosting their Metropolitan Division lead by beating the New York Islanders 5-2 on Sunday.The Hurricanes won their fourth in a row and extended their edge over the second-place New York Rangers by four points. Carolina has two games left, including a visit to Madison Square Garden to face the Rangers on Tuesday night. New York has three games remaining.Carolina tied franchise records for victories (52) and points (112). Both marks were set in the 2005-06 season, which culminated in the team’s sole Stanley Cup championship. Seth Jarvis, Derek Stepan, Jesper Fast, and Brendan Smith also scored for the Hurricanes.Antti Raanta made 17 saves on 18 shots before appearing to suffer an injury in the second period. The Hurricanes are now missing their top two goaltenders after Frederik Andersen suffered an injury on April 16.ADVERTISEMENTRoss Johnston and Ryan Pulock scored for the Islanders, who lost their fifth straight game. Semyon Varlamov made 29 saves on 32 shots.BLUE JACKETS 5, OILERS 2NHLHurricanes level Islanders to extend division leadDomi, Hurricanes win 4th in row to boost lead, top IslandersNedeljkovic makes 17 saves, Red Wings blank Devils 3-0
Blankenburg gets 1st NHL goal, Blue Jackets beat Oilers 5-2COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Rookie Nick Blankenburg scored his first NHL goal and added an assist to help Columbus beat Edmonton, breaking a five-game losing streak and keeping the Oilers from clinching second place in the Pacific Division.Eric Robinson and Jack Roslovic also scored, Oliver Bjorkstrand had a goal and two assists, and Cole Sillinger added a goal and an assist for Columbus. Jakub Voracek notched three assists and Gus Nyquist had two helpers for Columbus, while Elvis Merzlikins stopped 33 shots in his 26th win.Evander Kane and Leon Draisaitl scored for Edmonton, and Mikko Koskinen stopped 26 shots. RED WINGS 3, DEVILS 0NEWARK, N.J. (AP) — Alex Nedeljkovic had 17 saves, Oskar Sundqvist and Tyler Bertuzzi each had a goal and assist and Detroit beat New Jersey. The win snapped a two-game losing streak for the Red Wings and came a day after they were blown out by the Pittsburgh Penguins 7-2.Sundqvist scored in the first period and Bertuzzi and Michael Rasmussen added late empty-net goals.New Jersey goaltender Andrew Hammond made 21 saves as the Devils lost their seventh straight game at home.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports