SANTA FE, N.M. (AP) — New Mexico’s Democratic-led Legislature pushed Tuesday for one-time payments to residents of $500 per individual or $1,000 per household to offset steep prices for fuel and raging inflation.The aid package would distribute nearly $700 million to adult residents of all income levels, including elderly people with little or no income who don’t ordinarily file taxes and undocumented immigrants. The bill won House approval on a 51-13 vote with broad support from Democrats and several Republicans, moving the initiative to the Senate for consideration.More than a dozen states are considering or implementing payouts to the public in response to raging inflation and budget surpluses, with some tax reductions also under consideration. Gas prices have surged to record highs in the U.S. amid the war in Ukraine and a ban on imports of Russian oil.Fuel prices are taking a bite out household finances at the same time that New Mexico state government is experiencing a financial windfall linked to record-setting oil production in the Permian Basin. New Mexico last year surpassed North Dakota to become the No. 2 oil producer in the nation behind Texas.ImmigrationGOP blocks Senate COVID bill, demands votes on immigrationActivists seek to secure Japanese immigrants’ ‘sacred’ landFederal lawsuit seeks to block end to sweeping asylum limitsLos Angeles paralegal to plead guilty to immigration fraudADVERTISEMENTSupporters of the proposed payments, including Democratic Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, say it is incumbent on state government to help people experiencing financial hardship due to inflation.Republicans legislators warned that rebates would only stoke inflation further. They criticized the timing of staggered rebates in proximity to the November general election as Lujan Grisham seeks a second term in office.Republican state Rep. Randal Crowder of Clovis said the legislation is timed primarily for political gain and could make matters worse.“It’s going to be a good boost, but it’s going to add to inflation,” Crowder said. “It’s going to put more pressure and pain on people who are not going to be able to deal with it. ... We’re pouring gas on a roaring fire.”Democratic Rep. Christine Chandler of Los Alamos, cosponsor of the rebate plan, says state payments would be staggered across several months to avoid predatory price hikes.Voters aren’t necessarily swayed by tax rebates, said Democratic House Speaker Brian Egolf.“I really don’t think that the voters are going to decide whether or not someone should be elected governor on the basis of a tax rebate,” said Egolf, who is not seek reelection. “We’re going to make the right decision for the people of the state given the economic circumstances.”Democratic state Rep. D. Wanda Johnson, a Navajo tribal member from Rehoboth, endorsed the inflation payments by invoking the vast driving distances between communities on the Navajo Nation in northwestern New Mexico – and the expense of abrupt changes in fuel prices.“Those are a lot of miles,” she said. “The price tag begins to add up.”ADVERTISEMENTMost New Mexico taxpayers already are due to receive a separate $250 rebate from the state in July, with the exclusion of upper-income individuals. Lawmakers also added an annual per-child tax credit or rebate of between $25 and $175 depending on household income.The new initiative sets aside $20 million in payments on a first-come, first-serve basis for people who don’t file tax returns because they don’t make enough money. That provision is aimed largely at the elderly, but is open to all adults who can demonstrate residency.State tax officials noted that the proposed tax rebates would be available not only to U.S. citizens but also undocumented immigrants who file taxes using a substitute tax identification number from the IRS.Legislators also are rebooting a vetoed bill containing $50 million in pet projects ranging from food banks to uranium mine cleanup and domestic violence shelters. Lujan Grisham has called for greater transparency in spending requests by legislators.