CINCINNATI (AP) — The Cincinnati Reds ended an 11-game losing streak, their longest in six years, jumping to a first-inning lead and beating the St. Louis Cardinals 4-1 on Sunday as former first-round draft pick Nick Lodolo got his first major league win.Colin Moran drove in two runs for the Reds, who had been 0-4 at home this year and had not won anywhere since April 10 at World Series champion Atlanta. Cincinnati had been outscored 68-20 during the skid. The win left the Reds a major league-worst 3-13.Tyler Naquin doubled on the second pitch from Adam Wainwright (2-2), who walked Tommy Pham and Joey Votto with one out. Moran hit a sacrifice fly and Nick Senzel followed with an RBI single.Alejo López singled leading off the second and scored on Naquin’s RBI grounder for a 3-0 lead.Lodolo (1-2), a 24-year-old left-hander selected seventh overall in the 2019 amateur draft, made his third big league start. He allowed three hits, struck out seven and walked none in 5 1/3 shutout innings before Paul Goldschmidt and Tyler O’Neill hit consecutive doubles in the sixth. Lodolo retired Nolan Arenado on a flyout, and Tony Santillan got Albert Pujols to pop out.MLBGuardians rookie Kwan exits with right hamstring tightnessCole, Yanks sweep Guardians in series blighted by fan issuesMarlins win series against Braves behind Cooper, GarciaGrichuk, Blackmon lead Rockies to 6-2 win over TigersADVERTISEMENTLodolo has 15 strikeouts in a combined 10 2/3 innings over his last two starts.Santillan and Art Warren combined for 2 1/3 innings shutout innings, and Lucas Sims pitched a perfect ninth for his first save this season.Arenado went 0 for 4, ending his hitting streak at Great American Ball Park at 18 games, a stadium record. The Reds avoided their longest losing streak since dropping 13 straight in 2015.Pham scored two runs and had two hits, ending an 0-for-10 sluide.Wainwright (2-2) allowed four runs, eight hits and three walks in five-plus innings, and the Cardinals finished a 6-4 trip. Moran chased Wainwright with an RBI single in the sixth. TRAINER’S ROOMReds: 2B Jonathan India (right hamstring) took groundballs and could be activated on Tuesday. ... C Tyler Stephenson (concussion) might not make the trip that is scheduled to start on Friday in Colorado, manager David Bell said before Sunday’s game.UP NEXTCardinals: RHP Miles Mikolas (1-0, 1.76) is the scheduled starter for Monday’s opener of a three-game home series against the Mets. Reds: LHP Reiver Sanmartin (0-2, 7.11) is Tuesday’s scheduled starter against the Padres, who swept a three-game series against Cincinnati last week in San Diego.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports