DENVER (AP) — Mikko Rantanen scored the go-ahead goal on a power play with 7:43 remaining, Pavel Francouz stopped 25 shots and the Colorado Avalanche beat the San Jose Sharks 4-2 on Thursday night. Andre Burakovsky, Darren Helm and Alex Newhook also added goals for the Avalanche, who earned victory No. 27 at Ball Arena this season. They’re one away from tying the franchise record for home victories set in 2000-01 and matched in 2017-18. Timo Meier and Brent Burns had goals for a Sharks team that was on the second night of a back-to-back. Kaapo Kahkonen was solid in net, turning back 42 of 46 shots in his second game for the Sharks after being acquired from Minnesota on March 21.Colorado has beaten the Sharks at home seven times in a row. Rantanen lined a shot just past the glove of Kahkonen to give Colorado a 3-2 lead. It was set up on a pinpoint pass from Nazem Kadri, who had just returned to the ice after taking a big hit along the boards earlier in the period.ADVERTISEMENTBurakovsky sealed it with a goal nearly three minutes later. Helm gave Colorado a 2-1 lead early in the third on a play set up when Valeri Nichushkin stole the puck. The advantage didn’t last as Burns tied it up with a shot through traffic. NHLMatthews scores NHL-leading 50th, Toronto beats Winnipeg 7-3Matthews' NHL-leading 50th goal leads Maple Leafs past JetsBruins bust out for 8-1 victory over Devils as Rask honored Malkin scores in OT, Penguins beat Wild 4-3Meier tied the game at 1 in the second courtesy of a nifty pass by Tomas Hertl, who was falling down near the net when he delivered the puck. Meier now has a career-best 31 goals this season.Newhook gave Colorado a 1-0 lead early in the second period on a turn-around wrist shot. But he had to wait a moment to see if it counted after the Sharks challenged the play for goaltender interference. The officials took a look and upheld the goal. It was Newhook’s first score since Feb. 19.NO FIGHT CLUB?Nathan MacKinnon returned to the lineup for the Avs on Thursday, dodging a scare after appearing to hurt his hand in a fight last weekend against Minnesota’s Matthew Dumba and missing the game in Calgary to return home for more evaluation.Colorado coach Jared Bednar said he hasn’t had a conversation with MacKinnon about resisting the temptation to drop the gloves and fight. “It’s hockey. It’s a physical sport,” Bednar said. “It would be like telling a linebacker in football, ‘Hey, you know, we’re almost in the playoffs so make sure you don’t hit anybody hard. You might hurt your shoulder.’”BOWEN UPDATEThe Avalanche assigned defenseman Bowen Byram to the Colorado Eagles of the American Hockey League on a conditioning loan. Byram (personal reasons) hasn’t played since Jan. 10. LABANC UPDATESharks coach Bob Boughner indicated forward Kevin Labanc (shoulder) could return as soon as this weekend. UP NEXTSharks: Start a three-game homestand Saturday against Dallas.Avalanche: Host the Pittsburgh Penguins on Saturday.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports