DENVER (AP) — C.J. Cron drilled a two-run homer on an afternoon when the whipping wind made flyballs an adventure, and the Colorado Rockies beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 9-4 on Sunday to give Bud Black his 1,000th win as a major league manager.Black became the 66th skipper to reach the milestone. He improved to 351-360 with Colorado after going 649-713 with the San Diego Padres from 2007-15.Wind gusts up to 40 mph at Coors Field sent napkins and hot-dog wrappers floating through the stands. The Rockies took two of three for their first home series win over the Dodgers since Aug. 9-12, 2018.It was far from a breeze. The Rockies led 6-0 after the third inning, but with the swirling conditions, no lead was safe. The Dodgers cut it to 6-4 after left fielder Kris Bryant dropped Freddie Freeman’s fly for a three-run error. That wasn’t the only mishap in left, as Chris Taylor misplayed Ryan McMahon’s deep drive in the first, allowing two runs to score. Originally ruled a two-run double for McMahon, the official scorer changed it to an error. ADVERTISEMENTElias Díaz added some insurance in the seventh with a two-run homer to make it 9-4.MLBChavis' grand slam lifts Prates over Cardinals 9-4McKinney goes deep, A's avert sweep in 4-1 win over PhilliesBrosseau's pinch-hit HR sends Brewers past Cubs for 1st winCruz homers, keys Nats over Mets 4-2 with 8th-inning hitJhoulys Chacín earned the win by throwing 1 2/3 innings and striking out three. Ty Blach pitched four innings to pick up the save.Both starters had issues with the blustery conditions. Dodgers lefty Julio Urías (0-1) gave up six runs, three earned, over two innings. Rockies righty Antonio Senzatela allowed four runs, one earned, over 3 1/3 innings. It wasn’t the beginning either was looking for — Urías was coming off a 20-win season, while Senzatela signed a five-year contract in October.TRAINER’S ROOMRockies: 1B Connor Joe was hit on the right hand with a pitch from Mitch White in the fourth but stayed in the game. ... Black couldn’t provide a timeline on a return for LHP Lucas Gilbreath and RHP Robert Stephenson, who are both on the COVID-19 injured list. “Anywhere from one to 365 days,” Black said. “I hope it’s quicker.”EXTENDEDDodgers shortstop Trea Turner singled in the first and extended his hitting streak to 22 regular-season games dating to last year. PITCH CLOCKCount Black among those in favor of adding a pitch clock.“Heavily in favor of it,” he said. “It’s a good move to get that installed.”Same feeling for Dodgers manager Dave Roberts.“The rhythm of the game can continue to get better,” he said. “Players are adaptable. So whatever time clock you put on there, they’re going to adapt. I’m all for it.”INFLUENCERSBlack said there’s been a lot of baseball people who’ve had an impact on him and shaped his managerial style. He referenced managers such as Roger Craig, Mike Scioscia and Dusty Baker, along with front-office personnel like Al Rosen and John Hart.UP NEXTDodgers: Off on Monday before starting a two-game series in Minnesota. LHP Andrew Heaney is scheduled to pitch for Los Angeles.Rockies: LHP Austin Gomber takes the mound when Colorado opens a two-game series in Texas on Monday.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/tag/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports