Nonfiction 1. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)2. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)3. Idiots by Laura Clery, narrated by the author (Simon & Schuster Audio)4. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 5. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) 6. Unf--k Your Brain by Faith G. Harper, PhD LPC-S ACS ACN, narrated by the author (Blackstone Audio, Inc.)7. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 8. Bittersweet by Susan Cain, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)9. 12 Rules for Life by Jordan B. Peterson, narrated by the author (Random House Canada)10. Meditations by Marcus Aurelius, George Long - translator and Duncan Steen - translator, narrated by Duncan Steen (Naxos AudioBooks)ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. My Evil Mother by Margaret Atwood, narrated by Hillary Huber (Amazon Original Stories)2. He Who Fights with Monsters 5 by Shirtaloon and Travis Deverell, narrated by Heath Miller (Podium Audio)EntertainmentPsaki rumors, Mulvaney hire at CBS News trouble journalistsRihanna talks fashion, motherhood as due date approachesReview: A portrait of a Putin opposition leader in ‘Navalny’Hawaii couple drop restraining order against Ezra Miller3. Beauty and the Baller by Ilsa Madden-Mills, narrated by Sebastian York and Savannah Peachwood (Brilliance Audio)4. The Wrong One by Dervla McTiernan, performed by Neil Hellegers and Michael Crouch (Audible Originals)5. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)6. Where the Crawdads Sing by Delia Owens, narrated by Cassandra Campbell (Penguin Audio)7. Seatmate by Cara Bastone, performed by Amanda Ronconi, Zachary Webber, Josh Hurley, Carol Monda, Corey Allen, Allyson Johnson, Eric Yves Garcia, Tanya Eby and Dina Pearlman (Audible Originals)8. Run, Rose, Run by James Patterson and Dolly Parton, narrated by Dolly Parton, Kelsea Ballerini, James Fouhey, Kevin T. Collins, Peter Ganim, Luis Moreno, Soneela Nankani, Ronald Peet, Robert Petkoff, Ella Turenne and Emily Woo Zeller (Little, Brown & Company)9. The Golden Couple by Greer Hendricks and Sarah Pekkanen, narrated by Karissa Vacker and Marin Ireland (Macmillan Audio)10. The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo by Taylor Jenkins Reid, narrated by Alma Cuervo, Julia Whelan and Robin Miles (Simon & Schuster Audio)