HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) — Connecticut Gov. Ned Lamont did not rule out Friday the possibility of taking treatments for his case of COVID-19, acknowledging he was exhibiting some symptoms.“I had really no symptoms yesterday,” the Democrat told reporters during a virtual news conference from the governor’s residence in Hartford. “Today, maybe you can hear it in my voice and some other things. I may take a look at those treatments, yes.”Lamont, 68, received his second booster shot on March 31. He tested positive  Thursday morning after taking a regularly-scheduled rapid self-test. The infection was confirmed with a second rapid self-test and a positive PCR test, spokesperson Max Reiss said.Lamont, who sounded hoarse during the news conference, said he felt “pretty good” in general.ADVERTISEMENT“Today my voice is a little edgy,” he said. “I’m going to take a good long weekend here and relax. I think I’ll be fine early next week.”Lamont is at least the 16th U.S. governor to test positive for COVID-19, according to an Associated Press tally. His positive test comes a week after another Northeast governor, New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy, tested positive.COVID-193 Shanghai officials sacked over COVID-19 response NY to make it easier to detain people for repeat theftShanghai hospital pays the price for China's COVID responseWhitmer kidnap plot: 2 men acquitted, hung jury for 2 moreThis week, the Connecticut Department of Public Health announced more than 40 “Test to Treat”  locations were open across the state, offering people the opportunity to get tested for COVID-19 and receive treatments in one location if they test positive. The sites are located at pharmacies, urgent care centers and federally qualified health centers.“In order for COVID-19 treatments to work, they must be started early, within five days of when your symptoms start,” Dr. Manisha Juthani, the state’s public health commissioner, said in a written statement. ”The Test to Treat initiative provides eligible patients faster, easier access to potentially life-saving treatments.”