PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Bryce Harper homered and drove in two runs, Rhys Hoskins had three hits and the Philadelphia Phillies took advantage of several defensive miscues by the Colorado Rockies in an 8-2 victory Monday night.Kyle Schwarber added two RBIs for the Phillies. Kyle Gibson (2-1) lasted 5 2/3 innings, allowing two runs on three hits with four strikeouts and two walks.“All around good game, good start to the series,” Harper said. “Come tomorrow with the same mentality, same fire and passion we had tonight.”Connor Joe and Randal Grichuk homered for Colorado.Four of Philadelphia’s runs were unearned as the Rockies committed three errors and made several other defensive mistakes that resulted in hits.“Frustrating, for sure,” manager Bud Black said. “That’s not how we play.”The Phillies took advantage of Colorado’s shaky defense beginning in the third. Rockies shortstop Jose Iglesias dropped a throw from second baseman Brendan Rodgers on Harper’s grounder that would have forced out Hoskins. After starter Kyle Freeland (0-3) struck out Nick Castellanos for what should have been the third out, J.T. Realmuto doubled home Hoskins.ADVERTISEMENTMLBArenado's error helps Mets stun Cards 5-2 with 5 in 9thMets rally with 5 in 9th after Arenado error, beat Cards 5-2Semien, Seager RBI singles for Texas in 6-2 win over AstrosHarper, Hoskins lead Phillies past error-prone Rockies 8-2And the Phillies went up 3-2 when the next batter, Schwarber, hit a routine fly ball to right-center that fell between Grichuk and right fielder Charlie Blackmon. The gift double scored Harper and Realmuto.“Both lost it for a moment in the twilight,” Black said. “The basic mistake was not initially someone calling for the ball.”Philadelphia got more help from Colorado in the seventh when Jean Segura led off with a single and aggressively took third on Hoskins’ single, sliding in just safely when Kris Bryant’s throw from medium left field was off line.“Those are the plays that can springboard an offense,” Gibson said.Segura then scored on Harper’s sacrifice fly, Hoskins went to third on the play and scored on Ashton Goudeau’s wild pitch. Another fielding error by Ryan McMahon at third base, his second of the game, resulted in two runs scoring on a potential inning-ending double-play grounder.“We’ll be back tomorrow to play hard,” Black said.LOCKED IN ROCKSJoe extended his hitting streak to 12 games by driving Gibson’s first pitch out to left. It was the third career leadoff homer for Joe and second in three games.Grichuk upped his hitting streak to 10 games with a homer to left-center to start the second.FOR STARTERSFreeland allowed four runs — one earned — and six hits in five innings with seven strikeouts and one walk.TRAINER’S ROOMPhillies SS Didi Gregorius (bruised left hand) was out of the lineup for the fifth straight game but was available to pinch-hit. … Harper (right elbow strain) did not play right field for the eighth straight game, serving as the DH. He said after the game he plans to test his throwing elbow prior to Tuesday’s game.UP NEXTRockies RHP German Marquez (0-0, 4.67 ERA) opposes Phillies RHP Zach Eflin (0-1, 5.27) in the second game of the four-game series Tuesday night.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports