ST. LOUIS (AP) — Ville Husso made 27 saves, and Robert Thomas, Justin Faulk, Jordan Kyrou and Ryan O’Reilly each scored to help the St. Louis Blues to a 4-1 win over the Seattle Kraken on Wednesday night.The Blues have won three in a row and recorded a point in each of their last six games. They also have a point in 11 of their last 14 contests and improved to 15-3-3 against the Pacific Division.Husso, who has supplanted Jordan Binnington as the Blues’ top netminder, stopped the first 17 shots to record his third win over the Kraken this season. Husso is 13-2-1 at home this season.Jordan Eberle scored for Seattle, which has lost three of four and coming off a win Sunday against Dallas. Chris Driedger made 32 saves.Thomas continue a torrid scoring streak with his 16th goal of the season, scoring a power-play goal of a nifty cross-ice pass from Ivan Barbashev midway through the opening period. He has at least a point in a career-best seven straight games with four goals and eight assists during the run.ADVERTISEMENTFaulk scored his 10th goal at 7:56 of the second period to become the first St. Louis defenseman to hit the double-digit mark this season. He converted off a feed from Brayden Schenn, who recorded two assists.NHLCarlson's 4 points, Ovechkin's goal lead Caps past LightningSports Betting LineSports Betting LineNCAA Frozen Four in Boston a clash of the Midwest and West Eberle got the Kraken within a goal by pouncing on rebound in front of the net just 119 seconds later.Kyrou scored for the first time in 12 games early in the third period to push the lead to 3-1 with his 23rd goal.O’Reilly sealed the victory for St. Louis by scoring with 1:15 remaining.SPEEDSTER RETURNSFormer St. Louis Cardinals outfielder Vince Coleman was at the game and received a standing ovation when he was shown on the video board during the second period. Coleman spent six of his 13 major league seasons in St. Louis. He stole 326 bases over a three-year period from 1985-87.NO REUNIONSeattle C Jaden Schwartz missed his sixth successive game with an upper body injury. Schwartz played 560 games with the Blues and was a member of the Stanley Cup-winning squad in 2018-19.IRON MANSeattle D Adam Larsson is the only player on the Kraken roster to appear in all 70 games this season,SPREADING THE WEALTHThe Blues have a league-best seven players with 20 or goals or more this season. O’Reilly (17 goals) and Thomas (16) are closing in on the mark.UP NEXT:Kraken: Face the Blackhawks in Chicago on Thursday night.Blues: Host Minnesota on Friday night.—More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports