LOS ANGELES (AP) — Kris Jenner became emotional while recalling a volatile 2016 argument she heard about between her son Rob Kardashian and his then-girlfriend Blac Chyna that traumatized him.Jenner testified for the second day from the witness stand in a Los Angeles courtroom on Friday that she believed Chyna attempted to murder her son. At the time, she said she was told that Chyna pointed a gun at Kardashian’s head, tried to strangle him with a phone cord and hit him with a metal pole while intoxicated. “It was complete chaos. It was scary,” said Jenner, the 66-year-old “Keeping Up with the Kardashians” matriarch. She’s the first of four defendants -– a group that also includes her daughters Kim Kardashian, Khloe Kardashian and Kylie Jenner –- to testify in Blac Chyna’s $100 million lawsuit alleging the women conspired to have her reality show “Rob & Chyna” canceled and damage her celebrity status.ADVERTISEMENTEarlier this week, much of Chyna’s testimony dealt with the fight, and the celebration of the show’s renewal the night before. Chyna testified that she was joking with her fiance when she wrapped a phone cord around his neck and grabbed his unloaded gun off a nightstand. Chris RockKris Jenner says Blac Chyna tried to murder her son in 2016Gilbert Gottfried, actor and comic's comic, dies at 67 Will Smith gets 10-year Oscars ban over Chris Rock slapCelebrities go online to voice support for UkraineBut Kris Jenner said putting a gun to her son’s head was “not a joke.”“He was a mess,” she recalled while talking to her son after the incident on Dec. 15, 2016. “I could only imagine how he felt. … This was a horrible situation. I was heartbroken.”Kris Jenner began to shed tears while remembering the Rob Kardashian-Chyna spat, which happened months after Kim Kardashian was robbed at gunpoint in Paris. She said knowing that both her children had a gun pointed at them within the same year was traumatizing for her.“While Rob’s situation was going on, Kim had just been dealing with Paris,” she said. “He had a gun put at his head, and she was held at gunpoint and thrown into a bathtub. That’s a lot to take as a mother.”While on stand, Kris Jenner said her boyfriend Corey Gamble separated her son and Chyna –- who she says smashed an expensive television in the master bedroom. But after Gamble pulled them apart and asked Rob Kardashian to leave, she was told that Chyna smashed a chair on the windshield of her son’s car. In her questioning, Chyna’s lawyer, Lynne Ciani, asked why Jenner or anyone else did not call the police. Jenner said her security team – former Los Angeles Police Department officers – helped diffuse the intense ordeal. Kris Jenner claims she wanted to help Chyna. She said arguments between the couple were an “ongoing theme” in their relationship that included alcoholic beverages and drugs.“We didn’t put Chyna on the show and give her this fabulous life to be taken away,” she said. “We created other opportunities. I was hopeful that it would be OK. That’s why I didn’t call (the police).”ADVERTISEMENTCiani tried to gain clarity about a text message sent from Kris Jenner to “Rob & Chyna” showrunner that read Chyna “beat the (expletive) out of Rob’s face.” She said the phrase was used as a figure of speech.Kris Jenner compared her reference to Will Smith slapping Chris Rock during the recent Oscars. “It’s like you’re at an awards show and you get slapped,” she said while drawing some laughter from jurors and some others in the courtroom while her daughters’ facial expressions remained stoic.Ciani asked about another text she sent to the showrunner that read “We need to ditch this (expletive)” after her son’s altercation with the Chyna. Jenner said she was very angry and upset at the time, but she claims she never had any involvement in hampering Chyna’s time on the show.“It’s not my proudest moment, but it was how I felt at the time,” she said.Chyna’s lawsuit, filed in 2017, alleges defamation and interference with contracts. It accuses Kris Jenner of being a ringleader who used her daughters in a campaign to defame Chyna as abusive to Rob Kardashian. Kris Jenner would be an executive producer on the couple’s “Keeping Up with the Kardashians” spinoff, “Rob & Chyna,” which premiered on the E! Network later in September of 2016. She said she had nothing to do with the network deciding to not pick up the reality show for a second season.With Kris Jenner being her son’s manager, she said she would receive a letter saying the show was “green lit.” But she says they never got a letter exercising the option.Chyna and Rob Kardashian share a daughter named Dream.