WASHINGTON (AP) — Obi Toppin scored a career-high 35 points, and the New York Knicks beat the Washington Wizards 114-92 on Friday night.RJ Barrett scored 14 points for the Knicks before leaving the game with a sprained right knee. His early exit came on a night when a number of key players from both teams didn’t play at all. Both teams are eliminated from playoff contention. New York (36-45) moved a game ahead of Washington (35-46) for 11th place in the Eastern Conference.The Knicks allowed the game’s first 10 points and shot just 2 of 9 from 3-point range in the first quarter, but they dominated after that. New York was 14 of 30 from long distance the rest of the way.The Knicks took control when they outscored Washington 36-19 in the second quarter to lead 59-50 at halftime.New York scored the final six points of the first half on a dunk and then a four-point play by Toppin. Then the Knicks scored the first 13 of the third quarter. Toppin capped the run with two more 3-pointers to make it 72-50. ADVERTISEMENTRui Hachimura led the Wizards with 21 points. Immanuel Quickley had 23 points and 10 assists for New York.NBADoncic gets 16th tech, which means missing Mavs' finale Giannis Antetokounmpo, Bucks rout Pistons, 131-101Giannis Antetokounmpo has 30 points, Bucks rout PistonsMobley back from 5-game absence, starts for Cavs vs NetsDID NOT PLAYThe Wizards have been without Bradley Beal (left wrist) for more than two months, and Kyle Kuzma (right knee) was out for a 12th straight game. Kristaps Porzingis (right knee) and Kentavious Caldwell-Pope (rest) did not play either.Coach Wes Unseld Jr. said Kuzma, Porzingis and Caldwell-Pope will also miss the team’s finale at Charlotte.New York was without Julius Randle (right quadriceps tendon) for a fourth straight game. The Knicks have also been without Nerlens Noel (left foot), Cam Reddish (right shoulder), Derrick Rose (right ankle) and Kemba Walker. Quentin Grimes (right knee) and Mitchell Robinson (non-COVID illness) each missed a second straight game.TIP-INSKnicks: Toppin’s previous career high was 20 points.Wizards: Washington was blown out despite shooting 51% from the field. The Wizards had 22 turnovers, which led to 33 New York points.UP NEXTKnicks: Host Toronto on Sunday night.Wizards: At Charlotte on Sunday.___Follow Noah Trister at https://twitter.com/noahtrister___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports