EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Connor McDavid’s second goal of the game 1:11 into overtime lifted the Edmonton Oilers to a 6-5 win over the St. Louis Blues on Friday night.Zach Hyman also scored two goals, Evander Kane had a goal and two assists, Darnell Nurse had a goal and an assist, and Mike Smith made 31 saves as the Oilers tied a franchise record with their ninth straight home victory.The win came after Edmonton blew a three-goal lead in the first period.“I’m pleased we found a way to get the two points,” Oilers coach Jay Woodcroft said. “That’s the goal heading into each and every night. It’s a results driven business, but there was some sloppy play that has to get cleaned up. Any time you score six on a team like that, that’s a positive sign, but there’s some areas we have to focus on, like keeping them out of our net.”Leon Draisaitl made a perfect saucer pass to allow McDavid to score the winner.ADVERTISEMENT“Leo is such an amazing player that he is going to get the puck over somehow and he ultimately did and I found a way to put it in,” McDavid said. “Ultimately we hung in there to get two points. It sounds cliché, but that’s really all that matters at the end of the day.” NHLDetroit faces Ottawa on 5-game skidMontreal faces Tampa Bay, aims to halt 3-game slideVancouver faces Vegas on 4-game home skidSt. Louis travels to play Gaudreau and the FlamesPavel Buchnevich scored twice, and Robert Thomas and Ivan Barbashev had a goal and an assist for St. Louis, which had a two-game winning streak ended. Brayden Schenn also scored. Jordan Binnington allowed four goals on 13 shots before being replaced by Ville Husso in the opening period. Husso finished with 25 saves.“They came out hard, but that was a good comeback by us,” Blues defenseman Colton Parayko said. “That’s big for our group, being down 4-1 and coming back like that and knowing that if we’re down, we can step up and get back in it.”The Oilers got off to a fast start, with Hyman scoring on Edmonton’s first shot on goal at 1:50 of the first period.Buchnevich tied it at 1 at 4:29 when he scored on a wraparound shot.Edmonton made it 2-1 30 seconds later when Hyman scored off the stick of Blues defenseman Marco Scandella. Kane and McDavid made it 4-1 through one period. Thomas cut the Blues’ deficit at 1:54 of the second period, and Schenn made it 4-3 when his shot went in from the right faceoff circle.Nurse made it 5-3 at 17:13 when he scored off the rebound of a shot by Kane.Buchnevich made it a one-goal game at 2:06 of the third period. Barbashev tied it at 5 at 8:36 when he tipped in a pass.UP NEXTBlues: Travel to Calgary to face the Flames on Saturday night.Oilers: At Anaheim on Sunday night to take on the Ducks.—More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports