All Times Eastern NASCAR CUP SERIES Duramax Drydene 400Site: Dover, Delaware.Schedule: Saturday, practice, 10:30 a.m., and qualifying, 11:15 a.m.; Sunday, race, 3 p.m. (FS1).Track: Dover Motor Speedway.Race distance: 400 laps, 400 miles.Last year: Alex Bowman won after starting 16th.Last race: Ross Chastain took the checkered flag at Talladega and became just the second multiple race winner of the season. Fast facts: Chase Elliott leads Ryan Blaney by 21 points in the standings with two-time winner William Byron third, 34 points back. ... Elliott leads despite having just one top-five finish this season and no wins, same as Blaney. ... Elliott and fourth-place Kyle Busch share the lead with seven top-10 finishes. Next race: May 8, Darlington, South Carolina.Online: http://www.nascar.comADVERTISEMENTNASCAR XFINITY SERIES A-Game 200Site: Dover, Delaware.Schedule: Friday, practice, 3 p.m., and qualifying, 3:30 p.m.; Saturday, race, 1:30 p.m. (FS1).Track: Dover Motor Speedway.Race distance: 200 laps, 200 miles.SportsAmid NFL draft uncertainty, prospects display confidenceColumn: Draft cements the marriage of Las Vegas and NFLBad baseballs? New York Mets angry after rash of HBPsArenado buzzed, frustrated Mets brawl with Cardinals in lossLast year: Austin Cindric won after starting 16th.Last race: Noah Gragson held off Jeffrey Earnhardt in triple overtime to win at Talladega, his second victory of the season. Fast facts: Gragson jumped a spot to second in the standings, 40 behind A.J. Allmendinger. Ty Gibbs is 45 behind in third. ... Allmendinger has finished in the top 10 in all nine races; no one else has done it more than six times. ... Eight of the nine races have been won by series regulars. The only outlier is Cole Custer, who won at Fontana, California, in the second race of the season.Next race: May 7, Darlington, South Carolina.Online: http://www.nascar.comNASCAR TRUCK SERIES Last race: Defending series champion Ben Rhodes won at Bristol, his first victory of the season.Next race: May 6, Darlington, South Carolina.Online: http://www.nascar.comFORMULA ONE Last race: Defending series champion Max Verstapped rebounded from a blown engine in the previous race and led Red Bull’s first 1-2 finish since 2016 as he won from the pole at Imola. Next race: May 8, Miami, Florida.Online: http://www.formula1.comINDYCAR Honda Indy Grand Prix of AlabamaSite: Birmingham, Alabama.Schedule: Friday, practice, 4 p.m.; Saturday, practice, 10 a.m. and 5:20 p.m., qualifying, 1 p.m.; Sunday, race, 1:05 p.m. (NBC).Track: Barber Motorsports Park.Race distance: 90 laps, 207 miles.Last year: Eventual series champion Alex Palou won in the season-opener after starting third.ADVERTISEMENTLast race: Josef Newgarden won for the first time on the downtown streets of Long Beach, holding off Romain Grosjean to give Team Penske three wins in three races to open the season.Fast facts: Newgarden leads teammate Scott McLaughlin by five points and Palou by 15 in the standings. ... All three have a pair of podium finishes through three races. ... McLaughlin has led 235 of the 433 laps run thus far; Newgarden is next with just 35. ... Only nine drivers have been running at the finish of every race and only six have finished on the lead lap of all three.Next race: May 14, Indianapolis, Indiana.Online: http://www.indycar.comNHRA DRAG RACING Last event: Brittany Force won in Top Fuel and Matt Hagan won in Funny Car at Baytown, Texas.Next event: May 1, Concord, North Carolina.Online: http://www.nhra.comWORLD OF OUTLAWSNext events: April 28-30, Bristol, Tennessee.Online: http://worldofoutlaws.com/sprintcars___ More AP auto racing: https://apnews.com/hub/auto-racing and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports