NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — The Tennessee Titans traded wide receiver A.J. Brown to the Philadelphia Eagles for the No. 18 pick overall in the NFL draft and selected Arkansas’s Treylon Burks as his replacement. The Titans made the move Thursday night during the draft a week after general manager Jon Robinson said he wouldn’t trade the three-year receiver prior to the draft. The Titans also received a third-round selection, No. 101 overall. Tennessee then traded out of the first round, dealing the No. 26 selection overall and the 101st pick to the New York Jets. The Titans received Nos. 35, 69 and 163 getting them back into the second round after including their 2022 second-round pick in last June’s trade for seven-time Pro Bowl wide receiver Julio Jones. ADVERTISEMENT
Jones was released in March.
NFL2022 NFL Draft l Packers select pair of Georgia defendersJags take 'athletic freak' Walker with top pick in NFL draftSteelers tab Pitt QB Kenny Pickett as Big Ben's successorBreaking down players selected in 1st round of NFL DraftThis move leaves the Titans with a total of four selections in the first 90 picks of this draft. They came in with only two within the first 90. Tennessee now has 10 total draft selections, three more than it had coming into this draft.The 51st pick overall out of Mississippi in 2019, Brown had been the best receiver drafted by the franchise since the organization moved to Tennessee in 1997. He was named to the Pro Bowl in 2020 but has played a full 16-game season only as a rookie. He had 185 career catches for 2,995 yards and 24 touchdowns.Injuries limited Brown to 13 games last season when he led the Titans with 63 catches for 869 yards and five touchdowns. He also ranked 10th in the NFL with eight dropped passes, according to Pro Football Focus.Brown had been very active on social media about wanting a new deal from the Titans. He was caught on video talking with 49ers wide receiver Deebo Samuel recently making clear the Titans weren’t going above $20 million a year. Several Titans quickly reacted to the trade news. All Pro safety Kevin Byard tweeted out three angry face emojis, then wrote “Congrats my brotha! I’m still sick tho” with several emojis to Brown.Burks patterned certain parts of his game after Brown and had hoped to play with him for the Titans. Burks learned Brown had been traded after taking a call from the Titans telling him they had selected him, then glancing at Instagram to learn Brown was no longer in Tennessee.Before learning of Brown’s situation, Burks had pointed out, “I’m going to do what I do what I do best and just go out there and play football.”The 6-foot-3 receiver caught 146 passes for 2,399 yards and 18 touchdowns at Arkansas. He had 66 receptions for 1,104 yards and 11 TDs as a junior in 2021 and was named All-Southeastern Conference as only the fourth Arkansas receiver with 1,000-yard season. ___More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/hub/nfl and https://apnews.com/hub/pro-32 and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL