MLBSAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Alyssa Nakken made major league history as the first female coach on the field in a regular-season game when she took her spot for the San Francisco Giants on Tuesday night against San Diego.Nakken came in to coach first base for the Giants in the third inning after Antoan Richardson was ejected.When she was announced as Richardson’s replacement, Nakken received a warm ovation from the crowd at Oracle Park, and a congratulatory handshake from Padres first baseman Eric Hosmer.The 31-year-old Nakken jogged onto the field four days after Rachel Balkovec became the first woman to manage a minor league affiliate of an Major League Baseball team. She guided the New York Yankees’ Class A Tampa club to a win in her first game.NBANEW YORK (AP) — Kyrie Irving had 34 points and 12 assists, Kevin Durant added 25 points and 11 assists, and the Brooklyn Nets took the No. 7 seed in the Eastern Conference by beating the Cleveland Cavaliers 115-108 on Tuesday night in the play-in opener.ADVERTISEMENTThe Nets raced to a 20-point lead after one quarter and turned the Cavaliers away time and time again to earn a matchup with No. 2 seed Boston in a series that begins Sunday.SportsGiants' Alyssa Nakken becomes 1st MLB female coach on fieldIrving, Durant lead Nets past Cavs in play-in for No. 7 seedEdwards, Russell carry Wolves past Clippers in play-in gameCongress tells FTC Commanders may have broken financial lawsIrving made his first 12 shots before a 3-pointer rimmed out in the fourth quarter. He finished 12 for 15. MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Anthony Edwards and D’Angelo Russell combined for 59 points to help the Minnesota Timberwolves overcome a rough night for Karl-Anthony Towns and beat the Los Angeles Clippers 109-104 in a play-in game on Tuesday night.Edwards scored 30 points with five 3-pointers and Russell had 29 points and six assists to send the Wolves to the No. 7 seed in the Western Conference and a first-round matchup with Memphis. Paul George finished with 34 points after shooting 2 for 10 in the first half for the Clippers, who have a second chance to make the playoffs with a home game on Friday for the No. 8 seed against either New Orleans or San Antonio. NEW YORK (AP) — The Brooklyn Nets held a moment of silence before their play-in game against Cleveland and said they were donating $50,000 to help those who were injured after at least 10 people were shot on a subway Tuesday.The shooting occurred at a station in the Sunset Park neighborhood of Brooklyn that is the one closest to the Nets’ training center, where they held their morning shootaround Tuesday.NFLWASHINGTON (AP) — The U.S. House Committee on Oversight and Reform sent a letter to the Federal Trade Commission on Tuesday saying the Washington Commanders engaged in potentially unlawful financial conduct, and the NFL plans to look into the most serious allegations.The committee found evidence of deceptive business practice over the span of more than a decade, including withholding ticket revenue from visiting teams and refundable deposits from fans. ADVERTISEMENTIn the letter obtained by The Associated Press, the committee outlined through the testimony of former employees and access to emails and documents a pattern of financial impropriety by owner Dan Snyder and team executives. At one point in 2016, the committee said the team retained up to $5 million from 2,000 season-ticket holders while also concealing sharable revenue from the league.An NFL spokesman said the league has engaged former Securities and Exchange Commission chair Mary Jo White “to review the most serious matters raised by the committee.” She chaired the SEC from 2013-17.— By AP Sports Writer Stephen Whyno.TENNISMONACO (AP) — Novak Djokovic opened his clay-court season with a surprising loss to Alejandro Davidovich Fokina at the Monte Carlo Masters on Tuesday. Davidovich Fokina stunned the top-ranked Serb 6-3, 6-7 (5), 6-1 in the second round to hand Djokovic another setback as he tries to move on from the controversy surrounding his refusal to get vaccinated against COVID-19.It makes for rare back-to-back losses for Djokovic, who had not played since being eliminated in the quarterfinals of the Dubai Tennis Championships in February — his only previous tournament this year after he was barred from playing at the Australian Open. LONDON (AP) — Four-time Grand Slam singles champion Kim Clijsters has retired from professional tennis again.The 38-year-old Clijsters, who ended her second retirement in 2019 after a seven-year hiatus, announced Tuesday that she will “no longer play official tournaments.”Clijsters, who already is a member of the International Tennis Hall of Fame, won the U.S. Open for the first time in 2005 and walked away from tennis two years later at age 23 shortly before getting married.The Belgian player then took about two years off while having a daughter but returned and won the 2009 U.S. Open. She won another championship at Flushing Meadows in 2010, then added an Australian Open title the following season and moved back atop the rankings.WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. (AP) — Lew Sherr has been selected as the chief executive officer and executive director of the USTA.The national governing body for tennis in the United States announced the hiring Tuesday, saying Sherr will start his new role on May 2. He has been with the association for 13 years, the past decade as its chief revenue officer.Sherr will work with the USTA board to set the strategy for tennis’ growth in the U.S., and to make sure the sport continues its trend toward an increasingly diverse player and fan base. SOCCERMADRID (AP) — Manchester City midfielder Fernandinho does not want to extend his stay at the English club to a 10th year and plans to return to his native Brazil at the end of the season.The 36-year-old holding midfielder said his desire for more game time was behind his decision to leave City.“I want to play,” Fernandinho said Tuesday ahead of City’s second-leg match against Atletico Madrid in the Champions League quarterfinals.“I will go back to Brazil, for sure,” he added.WOMEN’S HOCKEYThe Professional Women’s Hockey Players Association has decided to break off talks with the rival Premier Hockey Federation, the latest blow in a widening rift between two factions that contend they want to grow the sport in North America. The PWHPA executive board voted unanimously to end discussions with the PHF about collaborating, a person with knowledge of the situation told The Associated Press. The person spoke on condition of anonymity late Monday because the decision had not been announced.Despite the NHL pushing for negotiations between the two sides, it has become clear over the past three years that the PWHPA and PHF, previously known as the National Women’s Hockey League, are not in sync in their objectives. — By AP Hockey Writers Stephen Whyno and John Wawrow.MEN’S COLLEGE BASKETBALLJERSEY CITY, N.J. (AP) — Saint Peter’s hired Jersey City native Bashir Mason on Tuesday to replace Shaheen Holloway as the coach of the Peacocks.Holloway left Saint Peter’s a day after his team was eliminated in the Elite Eight by national runner-up North Carolina to return to Seton Hall, his alma mater. Saint Peter’s was the first No. 15 seed to reach the Elite Eight. The Peacocks won the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference Tournament and went 22-12 with wins over Kentucky, Murray State and Purdue in the NCAA Tournament.This is also a homecoming for Mason, who spent the past 10 years at Wagner College on Staten Island.OBITUARYDAYTONA BEACH, Fla. (AP) — Shirley Spork, one of the 13 founders of the LPGA Tour who learned two weeks ago she would be inducted into the LPGA Hall of Fame, died Tuesday, the LPGA said. She was 94.The LPGA said she died in Palm Springs, California, where she had been living and taught into her 90s. While she never won on the LPGA Tour — her best finish was runner-up in the 1962 LPGA Championship at Stardust Country Club in Las Vegas — Spork’s impact stretched across seven decades of starting the tour and teaching the game.She was behind the creation of the LPGA Teaching & Club Pro Division, which began with six members and now has more than 1,700 women professionals.___More AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/apf-sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports