NEW YORK (AP) — New York Mets starter Tylor Megill and four relievers combined on the first no-hitter of the Major League Baseball season, teaming up to throw a whopping 159 pitches and beat the Philadelphia Phillies 3-0 Friday night.Megill was pulled after five innings and 88 pitches. The bullpen took over from there, with Drew Smith, Joely Rodríguez, Seth Lugo and Edwin Díaz completing the second no-hitter in Mets history.Díaz finished it off in style, striking out Bryce Harper, Nick Castellanos and J.T. Realmuto in the ninth. Mets pitchers combined to fan 12 and walk six.Johan Santana threw the Mets’ only previous no-hitter on June 1, 2012, when he struck out eight and needed 134 pitches in an 8-0 win over the St. Louis Cardinals. Megill (4-0) struck out five and walked three in his 23rd major league start. Smith got four outs, Rodriguez got three and Lugo recorded the last two outs in the eighth before Díaz took over.ADVERTISEMENTJeff McNeil hit a two-run single in the fifth off Aaron Nola (1-3). Pete Alonso homered with two outs in the sixth.MARLINS 8, MARINERS 6MIAMI (AP) — Jorge Soler and Miguel Rojas homered and Miami won its sixth straight game with a victory over Seattle. MLBNationals take on the Giants after Robles' 4-hit gameFriday Sports in BriefTrevor Bauer ready for fight with MLB over suspensionMariners take road slide into matchup against the MarlinsSoler’s homer in the first inning bounced off a column behind the left-center field pavilion and was measured at 468 feet, the third-longest in the major leagues this season.Marlins starter Elieser Hernández (2-1) settled down after a difficult second and limited Seattle to three runs over five innings. Hernández scattered five hits, struck out five and walked one.Seattle rallied with three runs in the ninth on Jarred Kelenic’s one-out RBI double against reliever Shawn Armstrong. Anthony Bender relieved Armstrong and allowed Luis Torrens’ sacrifice fly and Adam Frazier’s run-scoring single before retiring Ty France on a force out for his fifth save.Mariners starter Matt Brash (1-2) was lifted after two innings. The right-hander allowed six runs, seven hits, struck out three and walked two.ANGELS 5, WHITE SOX 1CHICAGO (AP) — Taylor Ward and Shohei Ohtani hit first-inning solo home runs off Lucas Giolito and Los Angeles rode a combined three-hitter to beat Chicago and get its sixth straight win.Ward finished with three hits and two RBIs, and Ohtani scored three runs as the Angels used seven pitchers to climb seven games over .500 for the first time since June 11, 2018. Tim Anderson had two hits for the White Sox, who have dropped 10 of 11. Los Angeles pitchers retired 18 straight White Sox batters on a night when scheduled Angels starter Noah Syndergaard was scratched because of an undisclosed illness. Manager Joe Maddon said Syndergaard “wasn’t feeling well” before the game, but wouldn’t elaborate on the symptoms. ADVERTISEMENTJimmy Herget stepped in to start after Noah Syndergaard was scratched and tossed three innings, allowing a run and one hit. Austin Warren (2-0) followed with two perfect innings. Raisel Iglesias got the final two outs and his sixth save as the White Sox loaded the bases.Giolito (0-1) allowed three and five hits while striking out seven in six innings, his longest outing this season. NATIONALS 14, GIANTS 4SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Juan Soto homered and Washington pounded out a season-high 22 hits, ending an eight-game losing streak by beating virus-ravaged San Francisco. Jason Vosler and Joey Bart homered for the Giants, who played without several regulars due to a COVID-19 outbreak.Victor Robles went 4 for 5, driving in three runs and scored three times for the Nats. Josh Bell and Maikel Franco also had four hits, while César Hernández and Alcides Escobar added three each.Washington’s Aaron Sanchez (1-1), who pitched for the Giants last season, gave up three runs in five innings.Alex Wood (2-1) allowed five earned runs in five innings. ASTROS 11, BLUE JAYS 7TORONTO (AP) — Jeremy Peña hit a three-run home run, Yordan Alvarez and Alex Bregman also connected, and Houston beat Toronto to extend its winning streak to four games.Bregman hit a solo home run off Yusei Kikuchi in the first, his fourth, and Peña and Alvarez went deep off Trevor Richards in a five-run sixth inning. Houston matched a season-high with 14 hits. Astros right-hander José Urquidy (2-1) allowed four runs and seven hits in five innings to snap a two-start winless streak. He walked one and struck out six.Vladimir Guerrero Jr. hit a three-run home run for the Blue Jays, his sixth, and Matt Chapman hit a two-run shot off the facing of the fifth deck in left, his fourth. Blue Jays right-hander Trent Thornton (0-2) allowed one run in 1 1/3 innings.RAYS 6, TWINS 1ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (AP) —Josh Lowe and Mike Zunino homered for the first time this season, Corey Kluber gave up one hit in six innings and Tampa Bay beat Minnesota to halt the Twins’ seven-game win streak.Lowe’s first career homer came in a four-run first inning off Twins starter Dylan Bundy (3-1). Zunino’s solo shot put the Rays up 6-0 in the third. Bundy, who had given up one run in three previous starts, gave up six runs on seven hits in six innings, striking out seven.Kluber (1-1) gave up one run on one hit and no walks in six innings, striking out six in his fourth start for the Rays. Carlos Correa had two hits, including driving in the lone run with a single, the only hit off Kluber. BRAVES 6, RANGERS 3ARLINGTON, Texas (AP) — William Contreras hit two long home runs, Austin Riley also connected and Travis Demeritte had an inside-the-park homer as Atlanta beat Texas. Demeritte was emphatically waved home by third-base coach Ron Washington, the baseball lifer who turned 70. Braves right-hander Ian Anderson (2-1) allowed two runs and three hits with five strikeouts and two walks over six innings. Kenley Jansen worked the ninth for his sixth save in as many opportunities.Adolis Garcia and Corey Seager homered for Texas, which lost its fourth game in a row. It was Seager’s third homer, and second in as many days. Garrett Richards (0-1) was saddled with the loss and was the first of six Texas pitchers. YANKEES 12, ROYALS 2KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) — Aaron Judge, Giancarlo Stanton, Anthony Rizzo and Gleyber Torres all homered and New York won its seventh in a row by topping Kansas City in a rain-shortened eight-inning game.New York took a 3-2 lead into the seventh before scoring four runs, three on Judge’s homer. Torres connected for a two-run drive during a five-run eighth.Nestor Cortes (1-0) allowed one earned run and eight hits in five innings.The Yankees wasted little time in putting pressure on Kris Bubic (0-2). D.J. LeMahieu hit a leadoff double to the wall in right field and Judge lined out to center before Rizzo homered to center.Salvador Perez snapped an 0-for-16 skid with an RBI double in the Royals’ first.GUARDIANS 9, ATHLETICS 8OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) — Andrés Giménez hit his first career grand slam, Josh Naylor’s two-run home run capped a four-run seventh inning and Cleveland rallied to beat Oakland and snap a seven-game losing streak.Naylor’s home run off Domingo Acevedo (0-1) came after the Guardians opened the seventh with three consecutive doubles, including José Ramírez’s two-run hit. Ramírez also homered in his 1,000th career game with Cleveland, which won for the first time since completing a sweep of the Chicago White Sox on April 21.Frankie Montas allowed five runs in five innings and walked four — matching the total from his first four starts this season.Trevor Stephan (2-0) pitched two scoreless innings for the win. Emmanuel Clase overcame Kevin Smith’s leadoff double in the ninth and picked up his third save.PADRES 7, PIRATES 3PITTSBURGH (AP) — Ha-Seong Kim and Jake Cronenworth homered, and Yu Darvish pitched six effective innings to lead San Diego over Pittsburgh. Kim was 2 for 4 with a two-run home run in the second inning to tie the game at 2. Cronenworth, who also went 2 for 4, then belted a solo shot in the seventh to finish the scoring.The Padres got their fourth straight win and ninth in the last 11 games. Darvish (2-1) allowed three runs and eight hits while striking out five and walking one. Taylor Rogers got the last two outs for his eighth save in nine opportunities. Zach Thompson (0-3) gave up four runs in 3 1/3 innings for the Pirates, and Daniel Vogelbach hit two RBI singles for Pittsburgh.RED SOX 3, ORIOLES 1BALTIMORE (AP) — Christian Arroyo ended Boston’s long-ball drought with a two-run shot, and Rich Hill combined with four relievers on a five-hitter to help the Red Sox beat Baltimore. Arroyo hit his first homer of the season in the second inning to provide the Red Sox with all the offense they needed to saddle the Orioles with their fifth straight defeat. It was Boston’s first home run in seven games and only its second in the last 11.Hill opened by retiring the first 12 batters he faced. Tanner Houck (2-1) came in to pitch three innings of two-hit ball. Matt Strahm put the tying run on with a walk before striking out Chris Owings to end the game and earn his first career save. Baltimore wasted a strong effort by right-hander Kyle Bradish (0-1), who allowed three runs (two earned) and five hits over six innings in his major league debut. DIAMONDBACKS 6, CARDINALS 2ST. LOUIS (AP) — Madison Bumgarner pitched five strong innings, Daulton Varsho had two hits and Arizona beat St. Louis. Bumgarner (1-1) outdueled Cardinals pitcher Adam Wainwright in a game featuring two starters who have combined for 314 career wins.Bumgarner threw a season-high 89 pitches in five innings, giving up one run on three hits. Luis Frias, Noé Ramirez, Joe Mantiply and Ian Kennedy combined for four innings of relief, allowing just one run.Wainwright (2-3) struggled with his control, issuing a season-high five walks. Paul Goldschmidt’s solo home run in the first snapped an eight-game homerless drought for the Cardinals. The 407-foot blast to left-centerfield came in the 12th pitch of the at bat.BREWERS 11, CUBS 1MILWAUKEE (AP) — Hunter Renfroe hit two of Milwaukee’s season-high six home runs, Adrian Houser struck out six and scattered two hits over six shutout innings and the Brewers beat Chicago. Houser (2-2) struck out six and walked two.Cubs starter Kyle Hendricks (1-2) couldn’t get out of the fifth, giving up up six runs (tying a season high) and allowing seven hits with two walks and two strikeouts. Hendricks also served up three home runs, starting with Jace Peterson’s two-run blast that capped off a three-run second inning.Andrew McCutchen made it a 4-0 game with a one-out solo shot in the third, and Christian Yelich broke the game open when he followed Willy Adames’ double with his second home run of the season in the fifth.ROCKIES 10, REDS 4DENVER (AP) — Ryan McMahon hit a tiebreaking, three-run home run in the fifth inning and Colorado sent Cincinnati to its major league-worst 17th loss in 20 games. Elias Diaz also went deep and Antonio Senzatela (2-1) pitched 6 1/3 strong innings for the Rockies, who had 14 hits and snapped a four-game skid hours after star Kris Bryant was placed on the 10-day injured list with a sore back.The Reds are off to their worst start since beginning 3-18 in 2018, and dropped their fourth straight.Hunter Greene had an uneven start after regularly surpassing 100 mph in his first two starts. On Friday, his fastball was clocked in the 96-97 mph range for the second straight outing, and McMahon pulled a 96-mph fastball into the second deck in right for his second homer. Greene (1-3) was charged with four runs and six hits with four walks and six strikeouts in 4 1/3 innings. DODGERS 5, TIGERS 1LOS ANGELES (AP) — Justin Turner and Chris Taylor each hit their first home runs of the season to lead Los Angeles over Detroit. Tyler Anderson (2-0) earned the win for the Dodgers, allowing one earned run on five hits in five innings. He struck out three and walked one. The Tigers scored their only run in the third inning when Javier Baez singled to center to score Tucker Barnhart. Alexander (0-3) made his first career start against the Dodgers, allowing four earned runs in 2 1/3 innings.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports