WASHINGTON (AP) — John Carlson scored twice and added two assists for a four-point game, Alex Ovechkin reached 1,400 career points with his 43rd goal of the season and the Washington Capitals beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 4-3 on Wednesday night to snap their skid at two.Martin Fehervary also scored for Washington, which sent the Lightning to a third consecutive loss. Ilya Samsonov made 25 saves in his first home start since allowing three goals on 10 shots and getting the hook after the first intermission Feb. 28 against Toronto. Nikita Kucherov, Nicholas Paul and Ross Colton had goals for Tampa Bay. RED WINGS 3, JETS 1WINNIPEG, Manitoba (AP) — Sam Gagner scored twice to top 500 career points, and Detroit beat Winnipeg.Michael Rasmussen had the tiebreaking goal at 9:11 of the third period for Detroit, Dylan Larkin had two assists and Thomas Greiss finished with 32 saves. Red Wings coach Jeff Blashill got his 200th victory.ADVERTISEMENTDetroit won for the second straight night after beating Boston 5-3 on Tuesday.Mark Scheifele scored for Winnipeg, which has lost three straight. Connor Hellebuyck made 32 saves.NHLLightning face the Bruins on 3-game losing streakBlues to host Kaprizov and the WildChicago plays Seattle on 4-game home slideCanucks visit the Coyotes after Pettersson's 2-goal gameBLUES 4, KRAKEN 1ST. LOUIS (AP) — Ville Husso made 27 saves, and Robert Thomas, Justin Faulk, Jordan Kyrou and Ryan O’Reilly each scored to help St. Louis top Seattle.The Blues have won three in a row and recorded a point in each of their last six games. They also have a point in 11 of their last 14 contests and improved to 15-3-3 against the Pacific Division.Husso, who has supplanted Jordan Binnington as the Blues’ top netminder, stopped the first 17 shots to record his third win over the Kraken this season. Husso is 13-2-1 at home this season.Jordan Eberle scored for Seattle, which has lost three of four and was coming off a win Sunday against Dallas. Chris Driedger made 32 saves.FLAMES 4, DUCKS 2ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Michael Stone got his first goal of the season and an assist in his 500th NHL game, and Elias Lindholm scored his 36th goal in Calgary’s victory over Anaheim.Tyler Toffoli also scored and Johnny Gaudreau got his 96th point on a sharp assist for the Pacific Division-leading Flames, who have won two straight after their first three-game losing streak since January. Jacob Markstrom made 26 saves, and Matthew Tkachuk added an empty-net goal with 35 seconds left.Trevor Zegras and Adam Henrique scored for the Ducks, who have lost 13 of 14 games since March 6. Anthony Stolarz stopped 24 shots. Ducks captain Ryan Getzlaf was a scratch with a lower-body injury in the first game since he announced his decision to retire at the end of the season.CANUCKS 5, GOLDEN KNIGHTS 1LAS VEGAS (AP) — Elias Pettersson scored twice and had two assists to lead Vancouver over Vegas, snapping a five-game winning streak for the Golden Knights.ADVERTISEMENTThe victory gave the Canucks’ slim playoff hopes a boost as they chase a Western Conference wild card. Both the Golden Knights and Canucks are on the outside looking in, with Vancouver in desperation mode. Vegas (82 points) is one point behind eighth-place Dallas, while the Canucks (76) are seven back of the Stars.Bo Horvat, Brad Richardson and Tanner Pearson also scored for Vancouver. Thatcher Demko was excellent in stifling what had been a red-hot Golden Knights offense by stopping 33 shots.Jack Eichel scored the lone goal for Vegas, and Robin Lehner made 26 saves.—More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports