Chansey Willis Jr. helped Detroit King win its second straight Public School League championship, showing his ability to be a pass-first point guard and take over a game with his scoring.Those skills led to him earning the Michigan Associated Press Division 1 Player of the Year honors in voting from a panel of sportswriters throughout the state.Willis, who averaged 24 points, 10 rebounds, 9.5 assists and five steals, previously was named Mr. Basketball in March. He had a triple-double with 16 points, 13 rebounds and 11 assists in the PSL title game win over Detroit Western.“Everybody says he’s a scorer, which he is, obviously, but he’s the best point guard in the state of Michigan, too,” King coach George Ward of Willis said. “I’ve been coaching in this city and this state for over 25 years. I haven’t seen too many people that can be the best point guard in the state and the best scorer like he can.”ADVERTISEMENTWillis was joined on the first-team by Mr. Basketball runner-up Kyler Vanderjagt of Grand Rapids Northview and Mr. Basketball finalist Kareem Rozier of Orchard Lake St. Mary’s.Vanderjagt averaged 22.4 points and 4.6 rebounds to help lead his team to its first Final Four appearance in Northview. Rozier, who will play next year at Duquesne, was a four-year starting point guard for St. Mary’s. He averaged 16 points and eight assists to lead his team to a Catholic League title and state quarterfinal appearance.SportsTiger Time: Woods thrills patrons with Masters comebackTiger at the Masters: A hole-by-hole look at his return 2 more Black coaches sue NFL alleging racial discriminationIan Happ gets 3 hits as Cubs beat Brewers 5-4 on opening dayGrand Blanc junior point guard R.J. Taylor and U-D Jesuit junior point guard Sonny Wilson were also first-team, All-State selections.Taylor averaged 17.2 points and 4.5 assists, making 70 3-pointers. He scored 28 in a state championship game loss to Warren DeLaSalle, making 7 of 10 3-pointers to keep his team close.Wilson averaged 18.9 points, 5.9 rebounds and 5.4 assists.The All-State team also includes: Warren DeLaSalle junior center Michael Sulaka, Orchard Lake St. Mary’s guard JaVaughn Hannah, Port Huron Northern junior Tyler Jamison, Flint Carman-Ainsworth’s Mehki Eillison and Saginaw Heritage sophomore Tyler Ode.Sulaka averaged 10.5 points and 6.5 rebounds. He took his game to another level during the postseason by scoring 26 in a regional final win over Macomb Dakota, helping DeLaSalle upset Orchard Lake St. Mary’s in a quarterfinal and scoring 20 points in a state semifinal win over Grand Rapids Northview.Hannah, who will play next year at Western Michigan, averaged 17 points. Jamison averaged 29 points, 12.3 rebounds and 3.8 assists, setting a school-record with 59 points in a win over Warren Cousino.Ellison averaged 25.7 points and 4.6 rebounds while Ode averaged 24 points.Gjon Djokaj led DeLaSalle to the Division 1 state championship, earning Coach of the Year honors. “Our motto this year was BOOM, brothers on one mission,” said Djokaj after the state title game win. “I have the utmost confidence in these kids. They put in the work. We put in the time. We’ve got six players that returned who were here last year (state semifinal loss to Ann Arbor Huron), so we have the experience needed.”