MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Clayton Kershaw took a perfect game through seven innings for the Los Angeles Dodgers in his season debut before being pulled, dominating the Minnesota Twins with 13 strikeouts in 21 batters during a 7-0 victory on Wednesday.Kershaw was pulled after 80 pitches on a cold afternoon at Target Field. Alex Vesia relieved for the eighth and gave up Minnesota’s only hit, a single by Gary Sánchez. Kershaw, a three-time NL Cy Young Award winner, struck out the side in the sixth and fanned every Twins batter at least once except Gio Urshela.Cody Bellinger, Gavin Lux and Austin Barnes hit back-to-back-to-back home runs in the eighth against reliever Dereck Rodriguez, who made his Twins debut. Max Muncy homered and Justin Turner hit a two-run single in the first for the Dodgers.Twins starter Chris Paddack had a rough debut, less than a week after he was acquired in a trade with the Padres. Paddack lasted four innings, with six hits and three runs allowed.ADVERTISEMENTBLUE JAYS 6, YANKEES 4NEW YORK (AP) — Vladimir Guerrero Jr. shook off a bloody gash on his right ring finger to hit three home runs, including two off Yankees ace Gerrit Cole, and Toronto beat New York.MLBAP SportlightAP-Sportlight-Week AheadAP-Sportlight-Week AheadField of Dreams owners plan huge baseball/softball complexGeorge Springer hit a tiebreaking single in the seventh, and Toronto held off the Yankees despite homers from Anthony Rizzo, Aaron Judge and Gleyber Torres — and a fly in the eighth by pinch-hitter Giancarlo Stanton that was caught on the warning track.Guerrero homered off Cole in the first inning, had his hand accidentally spiked on a play at first base in the second, then hammered a two-run shot against Cole in the third. He doubled in the sixth and launched a 443-foot leadoff homer in the eighth.Adam Cimber (1-1) pitched a scoreless inning for the win. Jordan Romano pitched the ninth for his fourth save of the season.Cole struck out six in 5 2/3 innings, giving up three runs on Guerrero’s homers. Three of the four hits against him were by Guerrero. Chad Green (0-1) took the loss.METS 9, PHILLIES 6PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Pete Alonso drove in five runs with a homer and two doubles, Max Scherzer settled in after working out of an early jam and New York beat Philadelphia.Alonso drilled a three-run homer and Brandon Nimmo hit a solo shot in support of Scherzer (2-0), who allowed one run and five hits with seven strikeouts in five innings. All nine batters who started the game for New York reached base at least once. Aaron Nola (1-1) allowed three earned runs on three hits in 3 1/3 innings. Nick Castellanos hit an RBI double and reigning NL MVP Bryce Harper launched his first home run of the season.NATIONALS 3, BRAVES 1ATLANTA (AP) — Josiah Gray allowed one hit in five scoreless innings, and Washington beat Max Fried and Atlanta, taking two of three games in the series and dropping the World Series champions to 3-4 on their opening homestand.ADVERTISEMENTGray (1-1) struck out five, walked three and also hit a batter. Tanner Rainey earned his second save.Atlanta’s Austin Riley had two hits, including a homer off Kyle Finnegan in the sixth. Fried (0-2) allowed three runs — two earned — and seven hits in 5 1/3 innings. He was struck on the right leg by a grounder in the sixth, gave up singles to the next two batters and was replaced by Collin McHugh. PIRATES 6, CUBS 2PITTSBURGH (AP) — Ben Gamel hit a three-run homer in the first inning, Ke’Bryan Hayes went 4 for 4 a day after getting a $70 million, eight-year contract and Pittsburgh beat Chicago.Kevin Newman hit a two-run triple in the third for the Pirates, who went 3 for 7 with runners in scoring position, a day after going 0 for 10.Seiya Suzuki was 1 for 3 with an RBI single in the fourth for the Cubs. Willson Contreras hit a 453-foot homer for Chicago.Kyle Hendricks (0-1) allowed six runs, seven and four walks hits in 3 2/3 innings. Dillon Peters (1-0) earned the win and Wil Crowe picked up his first professional save.GUARDIANS 7, REDS 3CINCINNATI (AP) — José Ramírez homered, doubled and drove in three runs, Owen Miller hit two home runs and Cleveland beat Cincinnati for its fourth straight win.Rookie Steven Kwan went 0 for 4, but drew a bases-loaded walk in the second inning that put Cleveland ahead to stay as it completed a two-game sweep. Oscar Mercado also homered for the Guardians and Myles Straw matched a career high with four hits.Nick Lodolo (0-1) made his major league debut and allowed seven hits and five runs with three walks and four strikeouts in four innings.Cleveland starter Triston McKenzie pitched three-hit ball for four shutout innings. He struck out six and walked none. Eli Morgan (1-0) relieved and gave up one run and one hit in three innings.RED SOX 9, TIGERS 7DETROIT (AP) — Jackie Bradley, Kiké Hernández and Rafael Devers hit consecutive RBI doubles in the fourth inning to chase former teammate Eduardo Rodriguez, and Boston held on against Detroit.Nathan Eovaldi (1-0) gave up solo homers to Jonathan Schoop and Akil Baddoo and allowed allowed two runs, four hits and a walk over five innings. Hansel Robles earned the save.Rodriguez (0-1) allowed up seven runs — two earned — five hits and three walks over 3 2/3 innings in his second start with the Tigers. Detroit rookie Spencer Torkelson hit his first major league homer, a two-run shot.DIAMONDBACKS 3, ASTROS 2, 10 INNINGSPHOENIX (AP) — Ketel Marte had the game-ending sacrifice fly in the 10th inning after Seth Beer tied it with a single as Arizona rallied to beat Houston and snapped a four-game skid despite leaving 14 runners on base.The game was full of missed opportunities for both teams — tied at 1-all through nine innings — until each scratched across runs in the 10th.The Diamondbacks got the better of the exchange, falling behind in the top of the 10th before scoring two runs off Houston closer Ryan Pressly (0-1).Arizona starter Merrill Kelly threw 5 1/3 scoreless innings, giving up three hits, two walks and striking out six. Oliver Perez (1-1) got the last out of the 10th.Houston starter Framber Valdez struggled, needing 76 pitches to get through three innings. He gave up one run despite surrendering two hits and five walks.GIANTS 2, PADRES 1SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Logan Webb pitched four-hit ball over eight innings and Luke Williams doubled home the only runs he needed as San Francisco edged San Diego.Webb (1-0) allowed one run and retired 22 of the final 24 hitters he faced, striking out seven and walking none. Camilo Doval picked up his first save.The Padres’ Jake Cronenworth tripled in the first against Webb and drove in Manny Machado, who had doubled.San Diego lefty Sean Manaea (1-1) was also stingy, holding San Francisco to two runs over six innings of four-hit ball. WHITE SOX 6, MARINERS 4CHICAGO (AP) — Tim Anderson homered and drove in three runs in the rain, and banged-up Chicago beat Robbie Ray and Seattle.Eloy Jiménez and Luis Robert also connected, helping Chicago to its fourth straight win since falling at Detroit on opening day. Dallas Keuchel (1-0) pitched five innings of three-run ball in his first start of the year. Liam Hendriks earned the save.The White Sox lost two players in their second home game. Jiménez departed in the fifth with a left ankle contusion, and second baseman Josh Harrison left after seven innings because of lower back stiffness.Ray (1-1) was charged with six runs and 10 hits in 6 1/3 innings in his first loss with his new team. Ty France homered and drove in two runs for the Mariners, who lost their fourth straight game.ATHLETICS 4, RAYS 2ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (AP) — Frankie Montas pitched neatly into the seventh inning, Sean Murphy hit a three-run homer and Oakland beat Tampa Bay.Montas (1-1) allowed two runs and five hits over 6 1/3 innings, striking out six, as the A’s defeated Tampa Bay for the second time in three days. Oakland’s third reliever, Lou Trivino, earned his first save.Tampa Bay got a fourth-inning solo homer from Ji-Man Choi.Shane McClanahan (0-1) gave up three runs, two hits and three walks, and struck out eight in 4 2/3 innings.BREWERS 4, ORIOLES 2BALTIMORE (AP) — Kolten Wong tripled in the tiebreaking run in the ninth inning, and Milwaukee squeezed past Baltimore after blowing a two-run lead in the eighth.The Brewers received a sparkling performance from Corbin Burnes, who flashed the form that earned him last year’s NL Cy Young Award. But he failed to get the win despite throwing seven shutout innings, giving up three hits, striking out eight and walking one. Brad Boxberger (1-0) earned the win and Josh Hader picked up his third save.Rowdy Tellez had two hits and two RBIs, and Mike Brosseau drove in another run for Milwaukee.Ryan Mountcastle and Trey Mancini had RBIs for the Orioles. Baltimore starter John Means was pulled after the fourth inning with left forearm tightness, according to the team. He gave up four hits and retired the last seven batters he faced. Jorge López (0-1) took the loss.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/mlb and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports