TAMPA, Fla. (AP) — Auston Matthews had three goals to tie the franchise single-season record for goals, and the Toronto Maple Leafs beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 6-2 on Monday night.Matthews, who also had an assist and extended his goal streak to six games, had his seventh career hat trick — and fourth this season. The center equaled Rick Vaive’s mark with 54 goals set in 1981-82.Mitchell Marner had a goal and two assists, giving him 22 points (six goals, 16 assists) during a 10-game point streak. He also recorded his sixth straight multi-point game as the Maple Leafs took a two-point lead over Tampa Bay and Boston for second place in the Atlantic Division.Pierre Engvall and Alexander Kerfoot had the other Toronto goals. Jack Campbell had 32 saves.Tampa Bay got goals from Nikita Kucherov and Jan Rutta, and Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 33 shots.BRUINS 3, BLUE JACKETS 2, OTADVERTISEMENTCOLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Jake DeBrusk scored his second goal of the game 1:03 into overtime to lift Boston.DeBrusk scored in his fifth straight game, Craig Smith also scored for Boston and Linus Ullmark stopped 20 shots in the penalty-filled game as the Bruins bolstered their playoff positioning. They moved into third place in the Atlantic Division, even with Tampa Bay but holding the tiebreaker with one more win with 13 games left.NHLGaudreau scores twice, Flames get key 3-2 victory over KingsTarasenko scores twice, Blues beat Coyotes 5-1DeBrusk scores in OT to lift Bruins over Blue Jackets 3-2Matthews has 3 goals, Maple Leafs beat Lightning 6-2Boston has won three straight and 10 of the last 12.Emil Bemstrom and Zach Werenski scored for Columbus, which lost a season-high seventh in a row. Elvis Merzilikins had 34 saves.Werenski scored late in the second period to tie the score for the Blue Jackets. After a scoreless third, DeBrusk beat Merzlikins following a Columbus turnover in OT.FLAMES 3, KINGS 2LOS ANGELES (AP) — Johnny Gaudreau had two goals and an assist, and Calgary extended its lead in the Pacific Division.Elias Lindholm also scored for the Flames, who have 91 points and a five-point advantage over the Kings atop the division. Jacob Markstrom stopped 27 shots as Calgary snapped a three-game losing streak.Adrian Kempe had two goals and Anze Kopitar had two assists for Los Angeles, which had earned at least a point in five of its last six coming into the game. The Kings have 86 points and are only one point in front of the Edmonton Oilers for second.Cal Petersen finished with 30 saves for Los Angeles.BLUES 5, COYOTES 1ST. LOUIS (AP) — Vladimir Tarasenko scored twice, Pavel Buchnevich had a goal and two assists, and St. Louis beat Arizona.Ivan Barbashev and Brayden Schenn also scored for the Blues, who snapped a four-game losing streak at home to Arizona. Ville Husso made 21 saves as St. Louis won for the fourth time in its last five games (4-0-1).Nick Schmaltz scored in the third period and Ivan Prosvetov made 24 saves for the Coyotes, who lost for the eighth time in 10 games.