___New Twitter biggie Musk may have thoughts on edit buttonNEW YORK (AP) — Elon Musk, the billionaire Tesla CEO and power Twitter user who is now Twitter’s largest shareholder and newly appointed board member, may have thoughts on a long-standing request from users: Should there be an edit button? On Monday evening, Musk launched a Twitter poll about whether they want an edit button, cheekily misspelling “yes” as “yse” and “no” as “on.” More than 4 million people have voted as of Tuesday afternoon. The poll closes Tuesday evening Eastern time. Twitter’s CEO, Parag Agrawal, retweeted the poll. Many Twitter users have long begged for an edit button, but some caution it could change the nature of the platform.___Amazon’s first US union overcomes hurdles, faces new onesNEW YORK (AP) — A stunning upset in a union election on Staten Island had brought sudden exposure to the organizers and worker advocates who realized victory for the nascent Amazon Labor Union when so many other more established labor groups had failed before them. The ALU was decidedly underfunded and understaffed when it went up against Amazon, a deep-pocketed retailer with an uninterrupted track record of keeping unions out of its U.S. operations. Organizers instead relied on their ability to reach warehouse workers personally by making TikTok videos, giving out free marijuana and holding barbecues and cookouts. Organizers are now preparing for a challenging negotiation process for a labor contract. But experts say Amazon will likely drag its feet.Russia-Ukraine warUkraine leader to UN Security Council: No more Russia vetoLive updates | Zelenskyy: New round of sanctions vs RussiaAP PHOTOS on Day 41: Buildings in ruin, bodies foundWorld Bank says war shocks to drag on Asian economies ADVERTISEMENT___European Union proposes Russian coal ban in new sanctionsBRUSSELS (AP) — The European Union’s executive branch has proposed a ban on coal imports from Russia in what would be the first sanctions targeting the country’s lucrative energy industry over its war in Ukraine. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Tuesday that the EU needed to increase the pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin after what she described as the “heinous crimes” carried out around Kyiv. Von der Leyen said the ban on coal imports is worth 4 billion euros per year. She added that the EU has already started working on additional sanctions, including on oil imports.___JetBlue makes offer for Spirit Airlines, could spark bid warADVERTISEMENTNEW YORK (AP) — JetBlue Airways is trying to buy Spirit Airlines and break up a plan for Spirit to merge with fellow budget airline Frontier. Spirit said Tuesday that JetBlue offered $33 a share, or about $3.6 billion. Florida-based Spirit says its board will evaluate the JetBlue bid and decide what’s best for its shareholders. The JetBlue offer is about 40% higher than the value of Frontier’s bid. Frontier’s offer in cash and stock was worth $2.9 billion when it was announced in February, but Frontier shares have fallen since then, reducing the value to Spirit shareholders. Spirit shares soared after the New York Times reported JetBlue’s bid earlier Tuesday.___World Bank says war shocks to drag on Asian economiesBANGKOK (AP) — A report by the World Bank says disruptions to supplies of commodities, financial strains and higher prices are among the shocks from the war in Ukraine that will slow economies in Asia in coming months. The report released Tuesday forecasts slower growth and rising poverty in the Asia-Pacific region this year. Growth for the region is estimated at 5%, down from the original forecast of 5.4%. It anticipates that China, the region’s largest economy, will expand at a 5% pace. The report says “multiple shocks” are adding to troubles for people and for businesses and that governments whose finances have been stretched by the pandemic have less capacity to help.___UN: 18 nations have gone green on climate, raked in greenIt’s long been said you can reduce emissions and keep your economy growing. The latest report from the world’s top body of climate scientists confirms that 18 countries have done just that, sustaining emissions reductions “for at least a decade,” and growing at the same time. But they are mainly developed nations, whose economies are already fully built out. Some, including the United States, Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom, are among the largest contributors to historical carbon emissions, with perhaps the greatest responsibility to reduce emissions.___Stocks fall on Wall Street as tech slips, bond yields jumpNEW YORK (AP) — Stocks closed lower on Wall Street Tuesday and bond yields jumped as remarks by a Federal Reserve governor fueled expectations on Wall Street that the central bank is prepared to more aggressively raise interest rates and take other steps in a bid to tame surging inflation. The S&P 500 fell 1.3%, its first loss in three days. Weakness in big technology stocks weighed down the market most. Twitter rose after disclosing an arrangement with Tesla chief Elon Musk that will give him a board seat but also limit how much of the company he can buy while he’s a director.___White House to extend student loan pause through AugustWASHINGTON (AP) — The Biden administration plans to freeze federal student loan payments through Aug. 31, extending a moratorium that has allowed millions of Americans to postpone payments during the coronavirus pandemic. The decision was confirmed by an administration official familiar with the White House’s decision-making. Student loan payments were scheduled to resume May 1 after being halted since early in the pandemic. But following calls from Democrats in Congress, the White House plans to give borrowers additional time to prepare for payments. The decision was first reported by Bloomberg. The action applies to more than 43 million Americans who owe a combined $1.6 trillion in student debt held by the federal government.___CEO of rental giant Hertz vows to fix false theft reportsNEW YORK (AP) — The new CEO of Hertz says the company is fixing problems that led to false car-theft charges against some customers. Stephen Scherr says Hertz didn’t properly record transactions when cars thought to be missing were located. Scherr told CNBC that this is one of the first things he’s trying fix since taking over the company. It’s not clear how many people have been affected. Hertz says it’s several hundred customers out of Hertz’s 15 million annual transactions, but lawyers for customers say the number is more like 8,000.___The S&P 500 dropped 57.52 points, or 1.3%, to 4,525.12. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 280.70 points, or 0.8%, to 34,641.18. The Nasdaq shed 328.39 points, or 2.3%, to 14,204.17. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies lost 49.40 points, or 2.4%, to 2,046.04.