Nonfiction 1. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)2. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)3. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 4. 12 Rules for Life by Jordan B. Peterson, narrated by the author (Random House Canada)5. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) 6. If You Tell by Gregg Olsen, narrated by Karen Peakes (Brilliance Audio)7. Real Life, Real Love by Gia Casey and Raashaun “DJ Envy” Casey, narrated by the authors (Recorded Books)8. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)9. The Body Keeps the Score by Bessel A. van der Kolk, narrated by Sean Pratt (Penguin Audio)10. Hello, Molly! By Molly Shannon and Sean Wilsey, narrated by Molly Shannon (HarperAudio)ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. My Evil Mother by Margaret Atwood, narrated by Hillary Huber (Amazon Original Stories)2. Dream Town by David Baldacci, narrated by Edoardo Ballerini and Brittany Pressley (Grand Central Publishing)EntertainmentKim Kardashian testifies, causes stir at 'Blac Chyna' trial'Titane' actor Vincent Lindon to lead Cannes juryBattling the odds: Elisabeth Moss prefers a dramatic workdayThe B-52s to launch a US farewell tour this summer3. Young Rich Widows by Kimberly Belle, Layne Fargo, Cate Holahan and Vanessa Lillie, performed by Dina Pearlman, Karissa Vacker, Helen Laser and Ariel Blake (Audible Originals)4. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)5. Where the Crawdads Sing by Delia Owens, narrated by Cassandra Campbell (Penguin Audio)6. Run, Rose, Run by James Patterson and Dolly Parton, narrated by Dolly Parton, Kelsea Ballerini, James Fouhey, Kevin T. Collins, Peter Ganim, Luis Moreno, Soneela Nankani, Ronald Peet, Robert Petkoff, Ella Turenne and Emily Woo Zeller (Little, Brown & Company)7. The Golden Couple by Greer Hendricks and Sarah Pekkanen, narrated by Karissa Vacker and Marin Ireland (Macmillan Audio)8. The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo by Taylor Jenkins Reid, narrated by Alma Cuervo, Julia Whelan and Robin Miles (Simon & Schuster Audio)9. Beauty and the Baller by Ilsa Madden-Mills, narrated by Sebastian York and Savannah Peachwood (Brilliance Audio)10. Impact Winter by Travis Beacham, performed by full cast (Audible Originals)