Ashlynn Shade and Ayanna Patterson battled all season for Indiana’s top high school honors.Shade was the state’s Gatorade Player of the Year. Patterson won the coveted IndyStar Miss Basketball Award.Naturally, the two UConn recruits also received the most votes on this year’s Associated Press all-state team — with Shade, the 5-foot-10 junior, narrowly outdistancing Patterson as the top vote=getter in this year’s balloting.The results from a statewide panel of sports writers, broadcasters and coaches were announced Wednesday. Players are chosen regardless of grade level or the class their schools compete. The boys all-state teams is scheduled to be released Thursday;Shade’s selection was a fitting conclusion to a spectacular season in which she scored a record-tying 31 points in Noblesville’s 76-52 victory over Franklin in the Class 4A state championship game. She averaged 20.9 points, 8.3 rebounds and 4.1 assists, shooting 47.8% from the field and made 38 of 39 free throws in seven tourney games as the Millers went 25-4.ADVERTISEMENTPatterson, the Homestead senior, averaged 25.8 points, 11.8 rebounds, 2.5 assists and 2.0 blocks before losing to Shade and the Millers in the regional semifinal.SportsKershaw pulled after 7 with perfect game; Dodgers top TwinsQuarterback Derek Carr gets 3-year extension from RaidersChoo-choo: Hornets' play-in arrival blocked by freight trainCoaches Richardson, Shildt clear the air after confrontationShade and Patterson were both second-team selections last year and are expected to resume their personal battle in 2023-24 — as teammates with the powerhouse Huskies.Mila Reynolds of Class 3A state champion South Bend Washington, Jessica Carrothers of Crown Point and Alyssa Crockett of Westfield round out the first team. Shade is the only non-senior of the group. Reynolds is headed to Maryland after scoring 21 points in Washington’s 93-35 title game rout over Silver Creek. She averaged 21.6 points and 8.1 rebounds.Carrothers , an IUPUI recruit, scored 20.7 points and dished out 3.6 assists, leading Crown Point to its second straight Class 4A final four. She won last season’s state title and made the first team for the second straight year.Crockett will play at Michigan after averaging 18.5 points and 8.5 rebounds at Westfield.The second team consists of Zionsville junior Laila Hull, Bedford North Lawrence sophomore Chloe Spreen, Terre Haute North senior Zoe Stewart, Northwestern junior McKenna Layden and Pioneer junior Ashlynn Brooke. Stewart has signed with Murray State.Layden has committed to Purdue while Brooke intends to play at Ball State after leading the state in scoring at 25.9 points. Stewart was the state’s No. 2 scorer at 24.8 points.Tanyuel Welch of Indianapolis North Central, Rashunda Jones of South Bend Washington, Lilly Stoddard of Crown Point, Kuryn Brunson of Franklin and Kynidi Mason-Striverson of Silver Creek all were third-team selections. Jones, a junior, was the only underclass player on the team.Welch has signed with Memphis while Stoddard is headed to Purdue. Mason-Striverson intends to play at Evansville and Jones has given a verbal commitment to Purdue.