ST. LOUIS (AP) — Brayden Schenn scored 56 seconds into overtime and the St. Louis Blues wrapped up a playoff spot, beating the Minnesota Wild 6-5 on Saturday for their season-high eighth straight victory.Vladimir Tarasenko, Ivan Barbashev, David Perron, Brandon Saad and Pavel Buchnevich scored in regulation and Ville Husso made 31 saves.Schenn ended it after Minnesota rallied with a four-goal third period. The Blues swept the season series against Minnesota, their likely first-round opponent, and reached the 100-point mark for the ninth time.Ryan Hartman scored twice for Minnesota and Frederick Gaudreau, Marcus Foligno and Kirill Kaprizov added goal. Cam Talbot made 24 saves, pushing his career-high points streak to 12 games.BRUINS 2, PENGUINS 1BOSTON (AP) — Jeremy Swayman rebounded from a rough stretch with 23 saves and Boston beat Pittsburgh to clinch a playoff spot and end a season-high three-game losing streak.ADVERTISEMENTTrent Frederic and Erik Haula scored first-period goals for Boston.Former Bruin Danton Heinen scored for Pittsburgh. Casey DeSmith stopped 27 shots.RANGERS 4, RED WINGS 0NHLMike Smith makes 39 saves, Oilers beat Golden Knights 4-0Brayden Schenn scores in OT to lift Blues past Wild, 6-5Blues beat Wild 6-5 in OT to wrap up playoff spotGranlund's goal, assist lead Predators over Blackhawks 4-3NEW YORK (AP) — Igor Shesterkin made 20 saves for his fifth shutout of the season, Alexis Lafreniere scored twice and New York beat Detroit.Mika Zibanejad had a goal and an assist, and Frank Vatrano also scored for New York. Barclay Goodrow had two assists. The Red Wings were shut out for the seventh time this season.The Rangers have 49 victories, their most since finishing with 53 in 2014-15.FLAMES 4, GOLDEN KNIGHTS 0EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Mike Smith made 39 saves for his second consecutive shutout and 44th overall and Edmonton beat Vegas.Edmonton moved six points ahead of Los Angeles for second place in the Pacific Division — and seven points clear of Vegas. The Oilers are 14-3-2 in their last 19 games.The 40-year-old Smith made 30 saves Thursday night in a 4-0 home victory over Nashville.Evander Kane had a goal and an assist and Kris Russell, Cody Ceci and Warren Foegele also scored. Logan Thompson made 32 saves for Vegas. The Golden Knights have lost three of five.PREDATORS 4, BLACKHAWKS 3NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — Mikael Granlund had a goal and an assist in Nashville’s victory over Chicago.Eeli Tolvanen, Roman Josi and Matt Duchene also scored and Juuse Saros made 28 saves. Patrick Kane had a goal and an assist for Chicago, and Dominik Kubalik and Riley Stillman also scored.