NEWARK, N.J. (AP) — Gustav Forsling scored twice, including at 1:45 of overtime, and the Florida Panthers overcame a four-goal deficit and beat the New Jersey Devils 7-6 on Saturday.Aleksander Barkov also had two goals. Defenseman Radko Gudas, Ben Chiarot and Brandon Montour each scored for Florida, which won its third straight game. Spencer Knight stopped six shots, picking up the victory in relief of goalie Sergei Bobrovsky, who was pulled after allowing six goals on 25 shots in the first two periods.New Jersey forward Yegor Sharangovich had his first career hat trick. Jack Hughes, Janne Kuokkanen and Andreas Johnsson also scored for the Devils, who fell for the eighth time in 11 games. Andrew Hammond took the loss, his first of the season, allowing seven goals on 41 shots in his Devils debut.The Devils led 6-2 after two periods after a four-goal second period that included two goals from Sharangovich. He completed his hat trick with a short-handed goal against Bobrovsky that gave New Jersey a 5-2 lead.ADVERTISEMENTBut the Panthers, who improved to 9-13-1 when trailing after two periods, roared back in the third. Florida outshot New Jersey 23-5 in the third, and Barkov scored twice with Knight on the bench, tying the game with his second of the game and 33rd of the season with 1:24 remaining in regulation. NHLKeith Yandle's "Iron Man" NHL streak ends at 989AP SportlightMontreal faces Tampa Bay, aims to halt 3-game slideDetroit faces Ottawa on 5-game skidForsling capped the incredible comeback when he beat Hammond at 1:45 of the extra session.OFFENSIVE OUTBURSTIt was the second time this season New Jersey scored at least six goals against Florida this season, also doing so in a 7-3 home win against the Panthers on Nov. 9. It was the ninth time New Jersey scored at least six goals in a game this season.INJURED PANTHERS Florida forward Patric Hornqvist (undisclosed) missed his fourth straight game, and center Noel Acciari (upper-body injury) missed his second straight. Neither accompanied the Panthers on their road trip, which ends Sunday in Buffalo. Defenseman Aaron Ekblad (lower body) also missed his sixth straight game.WELCOME BACKForward Anton Lundell returned to Florida’s lineup after missing the past 11 games with a lower-body injury. Lundell was injured during the first period of Florida’s 6-1 win in Buffalo on March 7. UP NEXTThe Panthers are off to Buffalo for a matinee on Sunday.New Jersey will host the New York Islanders on Sunday. ___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports