WELLINGTON, New Zealand (AP) — The Dunedin-based Highlanders spoiled the Fijian Drua’s homecoming in Super Rugby Pacific on Saturday, rallying from 21-10 down to win 27-24 in the Drua’s first-ever home match in the capital Suva.The Drua had been forced by COVID-19 regulations to play their previous matches this season in Australia. Saturday’s match marked the first time a Fijian Super Rugby team has played a home match in Fiji.A capacity crowd of 15,000 at the national stadium in Suva saw the Drua score three tries to take a comfortable early lead. But the Highlanders found their way back into the match in the second half as it became more structured and they were able to kick into Drua territory and work from a dominant lineout.The match still was in the balance in the final minutes. The Drua attacked from any scrap of possession. But the Highlanders just were able to hold out to secure only their second win of the season.ADVERTISEMENT“That was a full 80-minute effort,” Highlanders captain Aaron Smith said. “What an occasion! It was awesome to be part of a bit of history, the first Drua game over here. It was a hell of a game and I’m so proud of our boys for sticking in there.”RugbyHighlanders edge Fijian Drua in historic Super Rugby match Chiefs beat Reds 27-25, Blues hold out Force in Super RugbySpanish rugby head to resign after losing World Cup spotSpain out of Rugby World Cup for using ineligible playerThe Drua shocked the Highlanders with a superb try after only three minutes. Kitione Taliga set in motion the try when he fielded a kick within his own 22. Vinaya Habosi charged down the touchline and linked with scrumhalf Frank Lomani who scored.The Highlanders quickly replied with a try to Sam Gilbert, created by Smith and Scott Gregory.But the Drua had home fans in a frenzy when Habosi sprinted almost 70 meters down the sideline to score their second try. Habosi was involved again as the Drua placed themselves on attack and flyhalf Teti Tela put in a grubber kick from which center Kalaveti Ravouvou scored.The Highlanders cut the lead to 24-17 by halftime with a try to backrower Marino Mikaele-Tu’u. A second-half try to replacement hooker Rhys Marshall put the Highlanders in a position to seal their win.“We knew the Highlanders were going to come at us but I’m so proud of the boys for their effort,” Drua captain Meli Derenalagi said. “We gave everything to try and stay in it on the field and play 80-minute rugby.“They gave their all to Fiji.” ___More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports