LONDON (AP) — New No. 1 Iga Swiatek powered Poland into the Billie Jean King Cup Finals for the first time and they were joined by other newcomers Italy and Kazakhstan on Saturday.Other winners included old hands the Czech Republic — six-time winners since 2011 — and Spain.The United States and Canada were on the brink of advancing with 2-0 leads in the best-of-five qualifiers.The finals are in November at a venue yet to be decided.Swiatek overpowered Romania’s Andreea Prisacariu 6-0, 6-0 in the first reverse singles to secure Poland’s unassailable lead. She’s won 19 straight matches, two as the world No. 1 after Ash Barty’s retirement.“It took us a few years, step by step, to progress and qualify finally,” Swiatek said. “Hopefully in the finals we’re going to show even more progress. I’m really proud of us.”Poland eventually won 4-0.Camila Giorgi earned the decisive third point for Italy against France in Alghero.ADVERTISEMENTGiorgi routed Harmony Tan 6-2, 6-0. Tan was given her cup debut ahead of Alize Cornet but Giorgi was in a dominating mood. Italy has won six successive ties.“We are not just happy, we are in seventh heaven,” Italy captain Tathiana Garbin said.TennisTsitsipas beats Zverev to return to Monte Carlo finalBJK Cup: Swiatek powers Poland to finals, Czechs top BritainBJK Cup: Raducanu levels for Britain, Swiatek's Poland aheadUS takes 2-0 lead over Ukraine at Billie Jean King CupFrance has lost three straight ties since winning the 2019 final. Kazakhstan upset visiting Germany in Nur-Sultan when Elena Rybakina overhauled Angelique Kerber 4-6, 6-3, 7-5. Kerber, trying to keep Germany alive, broke for 5-3 in the decider but Rybakina suddenly produced her best tennis in front of raucous support and won the last four games.The Kazakhs won 3-1.The Czechs were taken the distance by Britain and prevailed 3-2 in Prague.The makeshift pair of Karolina Muchova, playing her first cup doubles since 2019, and Marketa Vondrousova, playing her first cup doubles, beat Harriet Dart and Katie Swan 6-1, 7-5.Vondrousova, the 2019 French Open finalist appearing at her home club, started the day by drubbing U.S. Open champion Emma Raducanu 6-1, 6-1.Raducanu took a medical timeout after the first set for a blister on her right foot which worsened.Dart kept Britain in the tie with her first cup singles win when she beat 16-year-old Czech debutant Linda Fruhvirtova 6-0, 5-7, 6-2 in two-plus hours.After a short break, Dart went out for the doubles, her third match in two days, but Vondrousova trumped her by winning all three Czech points.Spain advanced without dropping a set against the host Netherlands in ’s-Hertogenbosch.Sara Sorribes Tormo earned a second point when she defeated Arantxa Rus 6-0, 6-4 in the first reverse singles. Spain wrapped up a 4-0 win after taking the doubles, too.___More AP tennis: https://apnews.com/hub/tennis and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports