GLENDALE, Ariz. (AP) — Trevor Zegras had another lacrosse-style goal, Isac Lundestrom had two goals and an assist, Anthony Stolarz made 22 saves for his third shutout of the season and the Anaheim Ducks snapped an 11-game losing streak with a 5-0 victory over the Arizona Coyotes on Friday night.Stolarz, in his first start since March 12 after missing eight games, had his sixth shutout in 56 career games.Cam Fowler had a goal and an assist, and Gerry Mayhew also scored for the Ducks, who had three goals in the first 10 minutes. The Ducks had only three points since their last victory March 6.Josef Korenar had 25 saves for Arizona after replacing starter Karel Vejmelka at 9:42 of the first period.SENATORS 5, RED WINGS 2DETROIT (AP) — Recently acquired Mathieu Joseph scored three times in the third period for his first career hat trick, Mads Sogaard made 27 saves in his NHL debut and Ottawa defeated Detroit.ADVERTISEMENTJoseph’s three goals were his first for Ottawa since being dealt from Tampa Bay at the trade deadline. Josh Norris, playing in his home state for the first time in his pro career, scored on a power play for his 27th goal for the Seantors. Austin Watson added a short-handed goal.NHLDetroit faces Ottawa on 5-game skidMontreal faces Tampa Bay, aims to halt 3-game slideVancouver faces Vegas on 4-game home skidSt. Louis travels to play Gaudreau and the FlamesThe 6-foot-7 Sogaard, a 2019 second-round draft choice, was promoted from Belleville of the American Hockey League earlier this week. He became the second goaltender of Danish descent to appear in an NHL game, joining Frederik Andersen.Rookie Lucas Raymond scored both goals for the Red Wings, who are winless in their last five games. Alex Nedeljkovic made 27 saves.ISLANDERS 3, RANGERS 0NEW YORK (AP) — Mathew Barzal had a goal and an assist, Semyon Varlamov stopped 27 shots for his 36th career shutout and the Islanders beat the rival Rangers.Casey Cizikas and Matt Martin also scored for the Islanders, who have won three straight and seven of 10. Varlamov, who had 10 shutouts last season — including four against the Rangers — got his second this season.Long considered out of the playoff picture, the Islanders pulled within 13 points of Washington for the second wild card in the Eastern Conference with 15 games remaining — one more than the Capitals. Igor Shesterkin finished with 15 saves to fall to 32-10-3. The Rangers had their four-game win streak snapped and they lost for just the third time in 11 games. They lost at home for just the second time in seven games — both against the Islanders, who have won six of their last seven visits to Madison Square Garden.LIGHTNING 5, BLACKHAWKS 2TAMPA, Fla. (AP) — Ross Colton scored two goals and added an assist, Steven Stamkos and Brayden Point both had a goal and an assist, and Tampa Bay beat Chicago.ADVERTISEMENTAndrei Vasilevskiy made 21 saves and improved to 13-0-0 against the Blackhawks in the regular season. He went 1-1 during the 2015 Stanley Cup Final in which Chicago beat the Lightning in six games. Brandon Hagel added an empty-netter in his first game against his former team.Tampa Bay’s Jon Cooper coached his 700th NHL game, becoming the 49th to do it. He is 426-215-59.Calvin de Haan and Alex DeBrincat each had a goal, and Kevin Lankinen turned aside 38 shots for the Blackhawks, who lost 4-0 at Florida on Thursday night and have dropped seven of nine (2-5-2).SABRES 4, PREDATORS 3BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) — Victor Olofsson scored the go-ahead goal with 5:35 left in the second period, and Buffalo extended its point streak to eight games with a win over Nashville.Tage Thompson scored twice, including his Sabres-leading 30th goal, and Buffalo continued its late-season surge (5-0-3) despite being all but mathematically out of playoff contention. Peyton Krebs had a goal and assist and Craig Anderson stopped 22 shots in a game Buffalo never trailed.The Predators had a two-game winning streak snapped and blew an opportunity to gain ground in a tightly contested Western Conference playoff race, in which they control the first of two wild-card spots.Filip Forsberg had his team-leading 38th goal, while Jeremy Lauzon and Michael McCaron also scored for Nashville. Juuse Saros made 31 saves.GOLDEN KNIGHTS 5, KRAKEN 2SEATTLE (AP) — Jack Eichel scored twice in his first multigoal game since being traded to Vegas, Logan Thompson made 26 saves and the Golden Knights beat Seattle. The Golden Knights, the previous NHL expansion team, swept the season series against the newest expansion team. Vegas beat Seattle in the season opener in October and shut out the Kraken 3-0 on Wednesday night. Eichel scored his eighth and ninth goals of the season in his 22nd game for the Golden Knights. Shea Theodore scored his 10th of the season midway through the second period. Jonathan Marchessault and William Karlsson added empty-net goals in the final 2 1/2 minutes for Vegas.The victory pushed Vegas back into a playoff spot in the Western Conference, one point ahead of Dallas for the second wild-card spot. Alex Wennberg and Kole Lind scored for Seattle. OILERS 6, BLUES 5, OTEDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Connor McDavid’s second goal of the game 1:11 into overtime lifted Edmonton over St. Louis.Zach Hyman also scored two goals, Evander Kane had a goal and two assists, Darnell Nurse had a goal and an assist, and Mike Smith made 31 saves in the Oilers’ ninth straight home victory.The win came after Edmonton blew a three-goal lead in the first period.Pavel Buchnevich scored twice, and Robert Thomas and Ivan Barbashev had a goal and an assist for St. Louis, which had a two-game winning streak ended. Brayden Schenn also scored. Jordan Binnington allowed four goals on 13 shots before being replaced by Ville Husso in the opening period. Husso finished with 25 saves.—More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports