ST. LOUIS (AP) — The New York Mets’ hit-by-pitch frustrations boiled over Wednesday when reliever Yoan López threw a pitch near Nolan Arenado’s head, sparking a benches-clearing brawl that led to Arenado’s ejection in the St. Louis Cardinals’ 10-5 victory.Mets hitter J.D. Davis left in the top of the eighth inning after being hit in the left foot by a pitch from Génesis Cabrera, the major league-leading 19th hit-by-pitch for the Mets this season — including three Tuesday night against St. Louis.New York appeared to retaliate a half-inning later against Arenado, who reached four times and drove in three runs. López zipped a 94 mph fastball near his head, and Arenado began yelling for López to “do it again.” The benches and bullpens cleared, and the teams pushed and shoved near home plate.Jake Woodford (1-0) allowed a run in two-plus innings of relief as St. Louis snapped a season-high three-game losing streak.ADVERTISEMENTMets starter Carlos Carrasco (1-1) gave up a season-high eight runs, seven earned, in a season-low 3 2/3 innings as the Mets had their three-game winning streak snapped.WHITE SOX 7, ROYALS 3MLBRasmussen, Rays end Mariners' four-game winning streak 3-2LEADING OFF: Mets rest after melee, Whitlock starts againArenado buzzed, frustrated Mets brawl with Cardinals in lossBC-Sports-OddsCHICAGO (AP) — Andrew Vaughn hit a tiebreaking three-run homer in the seventh inning, and the White Sox stopped an eight-game slide.The winning rally for the White Sox started when Danny Mendick and Tim Anderson hit consecutive two-out singles off Collin Snider (2-1). Scott Barlow then came in, and Vaughn drove his first pitch into the home bullpen in left.Jake Burger hit a solo homer for Chicago, and Bennett Sousa (1-0) got his first major league win. Kendall Graveman struck out four in two innings to earn his first save of the season.Whit Merrifield drove in two runs for Kansas City, which lost for the five time in six games.DIAMONDBACKS 3, DODGERS 1PHOENIX (AP) — Zac Gallen pitched six scoreless innings, and the Diamondbacks scored two runs after Max Muncy’s throwing error in the eighth inning.Gallen allowed two hits and left with a 1-0 lead, but Ian Kennedy (2-1) gave up Trea Turner’s run-scoring single in the eighth inning.Arizona went back ahead in the bottom half, when Daulton Varsho scored from first base after Muncy threw the ball into right field on Sergio Alcantara’s sacrifice bunt. Pinch-hitter Pavin Smith put the Diamondbacks up 3-1 with a groundout off Daniel Hudson (1-1). Nick Ahmed homered for Arizona, and Mark Melancon worked a perfect ninth for his fourth save. ___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports