PHOENIX (AP) — Zac Gallen pitched six scoreless innings and the Arizona Diamondbacks scored two runs after Max Muncy’s throwing error in the eighth inning to beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 3-1 on Wednesday.Gallen allowed two hits and left with a 1-0 lead, but Ian Kennedy (2-1) gave up Trea Turner’s run-scoring single in the eighth inning.Arizona went back ahead in the bottom half, when Daulton Varsho scored from first base after Muncy threw the ball into right field on Sergio Alcantara’s sacrifice bunt. Matt Davidson put the Diamondbacks up 3-1 with a groundout off Daniel Hudson (1-1). Nick Ahmed homered and Mark Melancon worked a perfect ninth for his fourth save in Arizona’s first series win over the Dodgers since Aug. 29-Sept. 1, 2019. The Diamondbacks finished with two hits.Dodgers starter Julio Urias allowed a hit — Ahmed’s homer in the fifth — in six innings. Turner also doubled to reach base for the 37th straight game spanning two seasons, including all 18 this year.ADVERTISEMENTGallen allowed one run and four hits in nine innings over his first two starts, but didn’t win either game. The right-hander was hitting his spots against the Dodgers, giving up a single to Mookie Betts in the third and nothing else until Turner’s double with two outs in the sixth.MLBArenado buzzed, frustrated Mets brawl with Cardinals in lossDiamondbacks score twice after error to beat Dodgers 3-1Vaughn homers as White Sox stop slide by topping Royals 7-3Bad baseballs? New York Mets angry after rash of HBPsGallen struck out five and walked two.Urias allowed a run in five innings to beat San Diego in his last start and didn’t allow a hit against the Diamondbacks until Ahmed’s homer to left with one out in the fifth.Urias struck out four and walked two.UP NEXTLos Angeles: LHP Tyler Anderson (1-0, 2.84 ERA) has struck out 12 in 12 2/3 innings heading into Thursday’s start against Detroit.Arizona: LHP Humberto Castellanos (1-0, 3.00 ERA) will make his third start Thursday at St. Louis after opening the season in the bullpen. He was activated from the paternity list — his daughter, Emily, was born on Saturday — Tuesday night and RHP Edwin Uceta was optioned to Triple-A Reno.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/mlb and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports