PONCHATOULA, La. (AP) — One of the state’s largest free events, second only to Mardi Gras, returns Friday to mark its 50th anniversary after the coronavirus pandemic shut it down for two years.The Ponchatoula Strawberry Festival  will run through Sunday, bringing thousands of people to the tiny city north of New Orleans.“We’re looking forward to record-breaking crowds this weekend,” said Kim Melancon of the city’s Chamber of Commerce. “The draw, of course, is our quaint little city and the fair is behind the main drag. Be sure to visit 6th Street and Memorial Park.”Melancon told WVUE-TV that non-profit organizations will be set up all around the park selling strawberries, of course, as well as food, drinks, merchandise, and memorabilia to raise money for various causes.ADVERTISEMENT“The draw really is to support these people with our strawberry fare and to benefit our area farmers,” Melancon said.The festival also includes entertainment by artists including Amanda Shaw, The Phunkey Monkeys and Waylon Thibodeaux, a parade and strawberry eating contests.COVID-19Sen. Susan Collins of Maine tests positive for COVID-19 Experts say US suspension of COVID aid will prolong pandemicDemocrats advance 'COVID relief budget' for considerationMinnesota scientist cites COVID shutdowns in governor bidOn Pine Street, in the center of town, Trey Harris is known for having the juiciest, biggest, and reddest crawfish and strawberries around at his shop Harris Seafood. Harris is a strawberry farmer who represents the industry on a state level and has gone to great lengths to keep traditions alive, the television station reported. When COVID-19 began to spread, Harris brought his competitors’ berries to his shop to keep promoting and moving them even though the festival was shuttered.“As you know, we haven’t had a festival in two years so this is a big big deal for all our local farmers,” Harris said. “We’ll have lots of representation from Livingston and Tangipahoa Parish and we are looking for this festival to be the biggest of all time.”Aside from being known as the “Strawberry Capital of the World”, Ponchatoula is also known for its antique and gift shops frequented by locals and visitors on weekends. Commerce after a pandemic and Hurricane Ida has resulted in mixed factors for some but all business owners agree that the festival returning gives them visibility again.“In some aspects of our business we saw profits skyrocket during the pandemic because more locals stayed home to shop with us,” said Casey Robert, owner of the home decor and gift shop Chaleuroux on Pine Street. “But the festival is like a homecoming for all of us. Some people that haven’t been to Ponchatoula will come to the festival and when they see us we get to remind them that we’re here and we’ll be ready when you’re ready to shop with us.”