A look at some of the key business events and economic indicators upcoming this week:HOUSING MARKET BELLWETHERNew government data on residential construction should provide insight into the state of the new-home market.The Commerce Department is expected to report Wednesday that builders broke ground on new apartments and single-family homes at a slower pace in December than in the previous month. The pace of U.S. home construction accelerated in November amid continued strong demand, though supply chain snarls have led to construction delays.Housing starts, monthly, seasonally adjusted annual rate:July 1,562,000Aug. 1,573,000Sept. 1,550,000Oct. 1,502,000Nov. 1,679,000Dec. (est.) 1,655,000Source: FactSetBINGE THISNetflix serves up its latest quarterly report card Thursday.Wall Street predicts the video streaming giant’s earnings declined and its revenue rose in the October-December quarter versus the same period in 2020. That would be a mixed finish to the year after posting profit and revenue growth the previous three quarters. Investors will be listening for an update on Netflix’s subscriber tally and its foray into video game streaming. BusinessChina's economy grows 8.1% in 2021, slows in second halfChina's Xi rejects 'Cold War mentality,' pushes cooperationCredit Suisse chairman resigns after internal investigationAmazon's UK site backs away from plan to stop taking VisaADVERTISEMENTECONOMIC BAROMETERA gauge of the U.S. economy’s future health is expected to have improved last month.Economists expect that the Conference Board will report Friday that its index of leading economic indicators rose 0.8% in December. That would follow an increase of 1.1% the previous month. The index, derived from data that for the most part have already been reported individually, is designed to anticipate economic conditions three to six months out.Leading indicators, monthly percent change, seasonally adjusted:July 0.9Aug. 0.8Sept. 0.3Oct. 0.9Nov. 1.1Dec. (est.) 0.8Source: FactSet