RENO, Nev. (AP) — Hospital staffs remain stretched thin statewide in Nevada but health officials said Thursday they believe a monthlong surge in COVID-19 cases has crested in the Las Vegas area and should peak soon in Reno and the rest of the state.“In Clark County, I think the worst of the omicron wave is over,” said Kyra Morgan, state biostatistician for the Nevada Department of Health and Human Services.“Washoe County is not quite there, but I think they’re going to follow closely behind,” she told reporters Thursday.Washoe County health district officials in Reno agreed with that assessment during a briefing on Wednesday.“We shouldn’t be too far out before we’ve reached that peak if we haven’t already,” said Dr. Nancy Diao, director of the district’s division of epidemiology and public health. ”Mid-February ... we should definitely be in a decline.”ADVERTISEMENTMorgan said Thursday that experts in other countries have observed that “because omicron spreads so quickly and has the short incubation period, we’ve seen the recovery from this curve happen more quickly than what we’ve seen in different outbreaks or variants.”She cautioned, however, “we could have a new variant discovered tomorrow and that would obviously change the situation.”The number of hospitalizations confirmed or suspected to be related to COVID-19 continued to rise statewide to 1,866 as of Wednesday, including 346 in intensive care units. But Morgan said nearly 90% of those are in Clark County, where they appear to have stabilized since mid-January.Hospitalizations in northern Nevada, which typically lag behind Las Vegas by about two weeks, continue to accelerate, the Nevada Hospital Association said.“While omicron appears to be less virulent than other variants, the sheer volume of cases is stressing the hospitals,” it said. “Staffing remains an issue throughout the healthcare continuum with employees requiring isolation or suffering from illnesses.” Patrick Kelly, head of the association, said the rapid spread of the omicron variant hit the health care workforce much harder than previous virus surges because of its prevalence in the general population.The 14-day moving average for new daily coronavirus cases topped 3,000 for the first time statewide Jan. 4 and reached a record-high 5,538 on Jan. 15. But since then, it has been declining steadily, dropping to 4,733 as of Jan. 22, according to the latest estimate posted on the state’s website Thursday.New cases in Washoe County are more than double what they were during the record peak of November 2020. The record daily count reached 1,694 new cases on Jan. 20. The seven-day moving average has topped 1,000 for a week, but District Health Officer Kevin Dick agreed it “may be leveling off.”Hospitalizations there have risen from about 135 a week ago to 192 currently, and are expected to continue to rise as they lag about two weeks behind case increases, Dick said Wednesday.____This story has been corrected to indicate statewide COVID-19 hospitalizations totaled 346. The state’s latest report Thursday shows there are 1,866 confirmed or suspected hospitalizations, including 346 in intensive care units.