MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) — Ja Morant scored 34 points, his sixth straight game of at least 30 points, and the Memphis Grizzlies built an early lead in a 115-95 victory over the Washington Wizards on Saturday night.Morant, picked as an All-Star starter for the Western Conference this week, was 15 of 27 from the field, including 4 of 8 from 3-point range.Desmond Bane had 19 points, and De’Anthony Melton added 13 to help the Grizzlies win their third straight and fourth in five games. Steven Adams had 10 points and 15 rebounds. with Memphis controlling the boards 60-37.Kyle Kuzma led Washington with 30 points and eight rebounds. The Wizards have lost five straight.Kentavious Caldwell-Pope added 15 points, and Spencer Dinwiddie had 10 points for Washington. Scoring leader Bradley Beal was held to nine points, going 2 of 11 from the floor. He had out 12 assists.The Wizards had three full days off after squandering a 35-point lead in a 116-115 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers on Tuesday night. With the loss Saturday, Washington dropped out of a tie with Atlanta for the 10th spot in the Eastern Conference.ADVERTISEMENTThe Grizzlies, who lost by 28 at Washington on Nov. 5, changed that direction early, building a double-digit lead that eventually reached 27 in the first half.Washington WizardsJa Morant scores 34 points, Grizzlies beat Wizards 115-95Morant and the Grizzlies face the WizardsKennard scores 7 in final 9 seconds as Clippers stun WizardsSacramento visits Boston after Tatum's 51-point gameThe Wizards showed more life after halftime, cutting the lead to 13, but the deficit was still 87-72 after three quarters. And the Wizards never threatened in the fourth.PRETTY SIMPLEIn Wizards coach Wes Unseld Jr. pregame media availability, a caller noted that the Grizzlies lead the NBA in seven statistical categories and asked what the Washington needed to take away. Unseld quickly replied: “Six of ’em.”TIP-INSWizards: Are 4-17 in Memphis since the Grizzlies moved from Vancouver in 2001. … A shift in the starting lineup; Thomas Bryant started at center, sending Daniel Gafford to the bench. It was Bryant first start of the season. He returned eight games ago from a left knee injury. Grizzlies: Rookie F Ziaire Williams sat out with left knee soreness. With Williams unavailable, John Konchar started at forward. … F Kyle Anderson returning to action after missing the previous seven games under health and safety protocol. UP NEXTWizards: At Milwaukee on Tuesday night.Grizzlies: At Philadelphia on Monday night.___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports