Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Regret-Metaverse-Tracking variants-------STORIES:From delta to omicron, here’s how scientists know which coronavirus variants are circulating in the USADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY A nationwide genomic surveillance system analyzes positive COVID-19 tests to build a picture of which variants are spreading in the population. 1108 words. By Alexander Sundermann, University of Pittsburgh Health Sciences and Lee Harrison, University of Pittsburgh Health SciencesScienceJapan tycoon Maezawa returns from space with business dreamsEnvironmental justice in spotlight as WH official departsScientists explore Thwaites, Antarctica's 'doomsday' glacierChina plans space station completion, many launches in 2022The metaverse offers a future full of potential – for terrorists and extremists, tooCOMMENTARY People may think of the metaverse as virtual, but the harm terrorists and extremists could do is very real. 1082 words. By Joel S. Elson, University of Nebraska Omaha; Austin C. Doctor, University of Nebraska Omaha, and Sam Hunter, University of Nebraska OmahaRegret can be all-consuming – a neurobehavioral scientist explains how people can overcome itCOMMENTARY Remorse and sorrow from a bad choice can haunt you for years, even decades. But there are evidence-based ways to move past regret. 914 words. By J. Kim Penberthy, University of VirginiaWhy kids shouldn’t eat added sugar before they turn two, according to a nutritional epidemiologistCOMMENTARY Children who are fed diets high in added sugars are more likely than children with lower sugar intakes to have a number of negative health consequences as they develop. 913 words. By Lisa Bodnar, University of Pittsburgh Health SciencesSchool closure debates put teachers unions front and centerADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY A dispute between the Chicago Teachers Union and the school district over in-person learning has resulted in classes being canceled. An education policy expert explains what is at stake. 977 words. By Katharine O. Strunk, Michigan State UniversityWomen are finding new ways to influence male-led faithsRELIGION Three female academics discuss how women are forging new pathways in faith leadership throughout religions that traditionally have been patriarchal. 836 words. By Biden urges America to see the truth of Jan. 6 – and understand its place in historyCOMMENTARY Rioters at the Capitol represented a ‘dagger against the throat’ of American democracy, President Biden said in an address laden with imagery. 593 words. By John M. Murphy, University of Illinois at Urbana-ChampaignHow democracy gets eroded – lessons from a Nixon expertCOMMENTARY The January 6, 2021, Capitol riot happened a year ago. But the attempt to disrupt the peaceful transfer of power was just one part of a larger, and more long-term, attempt to undo US democracy. 1036 words. By Ken Hughes, University of VirginiaUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.