DURHAM, N.C. (AP) — Mark Williams patrolled the lane with an assertive edge that had him cleaning up misses, swatting away shots and scoring through contact from defenders flailing to stop him.It was a reminder of the 7-foot-1 sophomore’s potential up front for eighth-ranked Duke.Williams had 19 points, 11 rebounds and eight blocks as Duke dominated inside to beat North Carolina State 88-73 Saturday in Hall of Fame coach Mike Krzyzewski’s return from missing a game due to illness.ADVERTISEMENTPaolo Banchero had a team-high 21 points for the Blue Devils (14-2, 4-1 Atlantic Coast Conference), who shot a season-best 58.3% and had complete control of the paint with Williams at the forefront.“I felt like our bigs played outstanding today and helped us,” said freshman Trevor Keels, who had 12 points, a season-high nine assists and five steals.Coronavirus pandemicA digital divide haunts schools adapting to virus hurdlesExpect more worrisome variants after omicron, scientists sayClap, don't chant: China aims for 'Zero COVID' OlympicsBiden team regroups after court loss on COVID shots-or-testThe Wolfpack had been vulnerable since losing defensive-minded big man Manny Bates to an opening-night injury, and Williams thrived by making 9 for 12 shots. That included him finishing around the rim through multiple whistles — at least once having him screaming in exuberance toward the baseline fans.Banchero had plenty of good looks of his own with his 6-foot-10 frame inside. Behind that duo, Duke finished with a season-high 58 points in the paint.“That’s an NBA frontcourt — you’re talking about a 7-1 guy and a 6-10 guy who both are good at what they do,” Wolfpack coach Kevin Keatts said. “And they just completely dominated us at the 4 and the 5 (positions).” Freshman Terquavion Smith scored 19 points for N.C. State (9-9, 2-5), while sophomore Dereon Seabron had 16 points and 10 rebounds.The Wolfpack, who shot 41%, had won seven of the last eight ACC road games dating to last year, including a 16-point win Wednesday at Louisville. But the Blue Devils stretched out the lead shortly before halftime then scored on their first three second-half possessions to push the margin past double figures.ADVERTISEMENTDuke pushed to a 19-point lead midway through the second half. N.C. State thrice got as close as nine, only to see Duke respond with a score on the ensuing possession each time.BIG PICTUREN.C. State: Bates’ injury significantly altered the Wolfpack’s formula for success by taking away a strong rebounder and relentless shot-blocker. Games like this, facing a team with size and the willingness to feed the ball inside, exploit that weakness. It didn’t help, too, that, 6-9 freshman Ernest Ross was out for this one with an ankle injury.“I thought our guys fought, and we played hard,” Keatts said. “But I didn’t think we did everything the right way. I didn’t think we were in great helpside (position). I didn’t think we did enough to deny the ball inside.”Duke: Banchero and surging fellow freshman A.J. Griffin have commanded the most attention of late for the Blue Devils, but Williams came through with a reminder of the impact he can have when Duke needs to work the paint. He showed that upside earlier this year in a win against Gonzaga (17 points, six blocks) then surpassed both totals with a new season-high points total and career-high in blocks.SWEET PASSWilliams’ best play might have been on one of his two assists.Late in the first half, Keels pitched ahead to Williams in transition, but the pass was a little too long. Williams caught it underneath the basket but momentum was carrying him out of bounds. Yet he maintained his composure (and balance) to drop a short bounce pass back for an oncoming Banchero to finish with a dunk.“I didn’t want to put too much heat on it where he wouldn’t catch it,” Williams said. “I mean, I knew he was there.”K’S HEALTHKrzyzewski, who is retiring after the season, didn’t coach in Wednesday’s win at instate league foe Wake Forest due to what the school described as a non-COVID-related illness. Associate head coach Jon Scheyer, designated as Coach K’s successor, led the team in that one and expressed optimism that the 74-year-old would be back Saturday.Krzyzewski looked like his usual self right away when he sprung up to animatedly object to an out-of-bounds call on a turnover less than 2 minutes in.Afterward, Krzyzewski said he started feeling badly Monday night. He has remained negative for COVID-19 in a daily testing regimen.“I thought I had COVID, even though I’ve been boosted and everything,” he said. “I had so many of those symptoms and I really almost had no energy at all. Just fatigued, I couldn’t keep my eyes open.“I’m good now, just fatigued,” Krzyzewski continued. “But I had two really bad days.”UP NEXTN.C. State: Virginia Tech visits the Wolfpack on Wednesday.Duke: The Blue Devils travel to Florida State on Tuesday.___Follow Aaron Beard on Twitter at https://twitter.com/aaronbeardap___More AP college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/college-basketball and https://apnews.com/hub/ap-top-25-college-basketball-poll and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25