WASHINGTON (AP) — Alex Ovechkin scored his 28th and 29th goals of the season in the third period, Nicklas Backstrom pounced on a turnover to get the winner 1:13 into overtime and the Washington Capitals rallied for a 3-2 victory over the Ottawa Senators on Saturday night.Backstrom also assisted on Ovechkin’s second goal, which tied Chris Kreider of the New York Rangers for the NHL lead.Backstrom then took the puck off a Senators defender deep in Ottawa’s zone and beat goaltender Matt Murray with a breakaway backhand to give Washington just its third win in nine games.Vitek Vanecek made 20 stops for the Capitals, who trailed 2-0 after two.Thomas Chabot and Zach Sanford scored for Ottawa, and Murray made 30 saves.SABRES 6, FLYERS 3BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) — Jeff Skinner, Tage Thompson and Peyton Krebs each scored twice, and Buffalo handed Philadelphia its 11th consecutive loss.ADVERTISEMENTPhiladelphia’s skid (0-8-3) matches the Arizona Coyotes and New York Islanders for the longest in the NHL this season. It is one short of the franchise record of 12 straight losses set in 1999. The Flyers are the first team in 11 years to lose 10 in a row twice in the same season.NHLFoligno's goal sends Wild to 4-3 OT win against BlackhawksKreider's hat trick powers Rangers to 7-3 win over CoyotesOvechkin scores 2, Capitals rally to beat Senators 3-2Duchene scores twice as Predators down Red Wings 4-1Rasmus Dahlin and Alex Tuch each had two assists for the Sabres, who ended a nine-game home slide. Michael Houser made 30 saves to win his second consecutive start and improve to 4-2.Claude Giroux tipped in two goals for the Flyers. Rasmus Ristolainen also scored in is first game back in Buffalo since getting traded during the offseason. Martin Jones gave up four goals on eight shots in 18 minutes before being replaced by Carter Hart, who finished with 14 saves.BRUINS 3, JETS 2BOSTON (AP) — David Pastrnak scored a tiebreaking power-play goal early in the third period to lead surging Boston. Charlie Coyle and Oskar Steen also scored for the Bruins, who are 10-2 since New Year’s Day. Tuukka Rask made 21 saves.Andrew Copp and Jansen Harkins each had a goal for the Jets, who played their seventh of eight games on the road to open 2022 because of COVID-19-related postponements. Connor Hellebuyck stopped 29 shots for the Jets.Boston’s leading scorer, Brad Marchand, surprisingly returned to the lineup Saturday after leaving Thursday’s game with an apparent right shoulder injury when he was hit from behind into boards by Washington’s Garnet Hathaway.MAPLE LEAFS 3, ISLANDERS 1NEW YORK (AP) — Morgan Rielly had a goal and an assist, Petr Mrazek stopped 25 shots and Toronto beat New York.Mitch Marner and Pierre Engvall also scored as the Maple Leafs finished a six-game road trip at 3-2-1.Zach Parise got his second of the season for New York, and Semyon Varlamov made 20 saves. The Islanders lost in regulation at home for the second time in 10 games (7-2-1) after dropping their first seven (0-5-2) at the $1.1 billion UBS Arena.RANGERS 7, COYOTES 4ADVERTISEMENTNEW YORK (AP) — Chris Kreider had a hat trick to set his career high with 29 goals, tying for the NHL lead, and New York scored six unanswered to get its eighth win in 11 games.Rangers defenseman Jacob Trouba scored twice the Rangers improved to 12-3-2 at home and recovered from an early 3-1 deficit after being outshot 16-4 in the first period by the last-place Coyotes. Igor Shesterkin made 25 saves for his sixth straight win and 10th victory in 11 games, improving to 19-4-2 this season.Liam O’Brien, Andrew Ladd and Clayton Keller scored for Arizona, which led 3-0 at 7:03 of the second. Karel Vejmelka made 14 saves on 20 shots before he was replaced by Scott Wedgewood at 1:33 of the third.DEVILS 7, HURRICANES 4NEWARK, N.J. (AP) — Jesper Bratt scored the tiebreaking goal late in the second period and New Jersey rallied to beat Carolina.Nathan Bastian scored twice, Andreas Johnsson had a goal and two assists, Michael McLeod and Pavel Zacha each added a goal and an assist and Jack Hughes also scored for New Jersey, which snapped a three-game skid. Ryan Graves had three assists and Dawson Mercer added two.Jon Gillies finished with 31 saves while filling in for Mackenzie Blackwood to pick up his first win in four games since being acquired from the St. Louis in December.Andrei Svechnikov and Josh Leivo each had a goal and an assist for Carolina, and Ian Cole and Brady Skjei also scored. Jack LaFontaine finished with 31 saves in his first career start — nine days after the former University of Minnesota goalie gave up two goals on three shots in his NHL debut.PREDATORS 4, RED WINGS 1NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — Matt Duchene had two goals and an assist to lead Nashville.Nick Cousins and Filip Forsberg also scored and Juuse Saros made 28 saves for Nashville, winners of two straight. Matt Tennyson had two assists. Adam Erne scored for Detroit, Alex Nedeljkovic made 21 saves. The Red Wings have lost two in a row.