OMAHA, Neb. (AP) — Nebraska hospital officials warned Monday that the hourslong wait times seriously ill patients in smaller hospitals are already enduring until they can be transferred to a larger hospital will only get worse if virus cases continue to surge at their current pace.Hospitals are already struggling to find enough beds and staff to treat patients, and virus hospitalizations are expected to increase dramatically over the next couple weeks as the highly contagious omicron variant of the virus spreads. Plus, many doctors and nurses are currently out sick with COVID-19 or having to quarantine because of exposure to the virus.“We could see a doubling of hospitalizations due to COVID in Nebraska over the next two to three weeks. That alone would overwhelm our health care system. But we’re also facing some of the worst staffing challenges we’ve had during COVID,” said Jeremy Nordquist, president of the Nebraska Hospital Association.ADVERTISEMENTThe number of people hospitalized with the virus in the state hit 602 on Monday. That remains below the recent peak of 637 reached on Dec. 13, but it has been steadily increasing since Christmas Day. The seven-day rolling average of daily new cases in Nebraska has soared over the past two weeks from 540 new cases per day on Dec. 25 to 3,152 new cases per day on Saturday.Amazon RiverIn Brazil's Amazon, rivers rise to record levelsReligious party seeks gains in Peru's legislative electionsConservationists: Bisons revive, freshwater dolphins dwindleColombian siblings launch market for Amazon farmers in needThat high number of virus hospitalizations, combined with all the other patients hospitals are treating, is already leading to long waits in emergency rooms across the state and delays in transferring patients from small community hospitals to larger ones that can offer specialized care. Todd Consbruck, CEO of Avera St. Anthony’s Hospital in O’Neill, said the sickest patients at his hospital in northeast Nebraska are waiting significantly longer for transfers.“There are times when we are seeing 4, 8, 10 hours to find a bed for someone who needs intensive, ICU care or surgery in a larger community,” Consbruck said.The problem is that the state’s larger hospitals are too busy to accept as many transfers as they used to, said Josie Abboud, president and CEO of Methodist Hospital and Methodist Women’s Hospital in Omaha, even though hospitals have restricted surgeries to free up resources and make more room for critically ill patients.The state reported 17,382 virus cases to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention last week, up from 10,682 the week before and 4,956 before that.“You certainly hope that we don’t get to the point where we can’t provide the care that we normally would provide to our community because that would be a tragedy for our community,” Abboud said.The omicron variant spreads more easily than other coronavirus strains, and has already become dominant in many countries. It also more easily infects those who have been vaccinated or had previously been infected by prior versions of the virus.However, early studies show that omicron is less likely to cause severe illness than the previous delta variant, and vaccination and a booster still offer strong protection from serious illness, hospitalization and death.