EUGENE, Ore. (AP) — Will Richardson scored 21 points as Oregon won its sixth straight game with a 84-56 victory over Washington on Sunday night.Jacob Young and Quincy Guerrier each added 12 points as the Ducks (12-6) moved up to fourth place in the Pac-12 at 5-2. Franck Kepnang and De’Vion Harmon each scored nine points for Oregon.Terrell Brown Jr. scored 14 points and Emmitt Matthews Jr. added 12 points to pace the Huskies (9-8, 4-3).Oregon shot 65.5% from the field in the first half, including 8 for 12 from 3-point range, to take a 48-13 lead at the break.“We knew that was a good Washington team that had won four of its last five so we had a sense of urgency,” Guerrier said. “We played really well on defense in the first half... Sharing the ball is a major key to be successful against their zone so we were sharing the ball and ready to shoot it.”Oregon took a 13-4 lead on a 3-pointer by Richardson before Nate Roberts scored for Washington.The Ducks followed with 11 straight points, including two dunks from Kepnang, to take a 24-6 lead midway through the first half.ADVERTISEMENTAfter Daejon Davis made two free throws for Washington, Oregon answered with 16 straight points beginning with a 3-pointer from Eric Williams Jr. Richardson added a jumper and a 3-pointer before Guerrier made a 3-pointer to push the Ducks ahead 37-8.“We were ready to play,” Oregon coach Dana Altman said “I thought in the first half, our defensive activity was really good. We forced a lot of turnovers.”Oregon finished 32 for 59 from the field, 9 of 18 from behind the arc. The Ducks had 16 assists while forcing Washington into 23 turnovers.SportsChiefs host Bengals, 49ers at Rams for spots in Super Bowl Chiefs rally past Buffalo 42-36 in OT in wild playoff gameGay's 30-yard FG lifts Rams over Brady, Buccaneers 30-27Alize Cornet reaches quarterfinals at her 63rd Grand Slam“It was one of those nights,” Altman said. “We had a good first half, 8-for-12 on 3-pointers, so things were clicking for us especially in the first half.”BIG PICTUREWashington: UW coach Mike Hopkins missed his second straight game due to COVID protocols as assistant Will Conroy filled in once again. … After some disappointing early losses against Northern Illinois, Winthrop and Utah Valley, the Huskies have improved in Pac-12 play with four wins in their last six games.Oregon: The Ducks have won six straight games while going more than a month without a loss. … After being ranked as high as No. 12 early in the year, Oregon has been out of the Top 25 for the past two months, but is making a case to get back into the poll. … Oregon was playing its first home game in three weeks. … Senior guard Will Richardson opened the game with two 3-pointers to reach 1,000 points in his career.UP NEXTWashington: The Huskies return home to host Colorado on Thursday.Oregon: The Ducks host Colorado on Tuesday.___More AP college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/college-basketball and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25