Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Space missions-SCOTUS-Booster shots-------STORIES:A lunar return, a Jupiter moon, the most powerful rocket ever built and the James Webb Space Telescope – space missions to watch in the coming monthsADVERTISEMENTSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  With about 200 orbital launches scheduled and ambitious missions on everything from lunar bases to the search for life in the works, there’s a lot to watch in 2022. An astronomer explains the highlights. 1037 words. By Chris Impey, University of ArizonaTechnologyApple's holiday iPhone sales surge despite supply shortages Rights group says Lebanese staffer targeted with NSO spywarePicasso heirs launch digital art piece to ride 'crypto' waveSamsung reports robust profit based on chip strength Driverless cars won’t be good for the environment if they lead to more auto useCOMMENTARY Studies show that when people can ride in a car without having to operate it, they increase their car use. That could increase traffic and pollution, unless government puts a price on car travel. 1080 words. By Giovanni Circella, University of California, Davis and Scott Hardman, University of California, DavisDon’t pay too much attention to guesses about how US Supreme Court will vote on abortion rights – experts are often wrongCOMMENTARY The Supreme Court is expected to hand down a number of major decisions this year. Expert predictions will abound – but statistical models are more likely to be accurate. 1012 words. By Lawrence Strout, Mississippi State University5 tips to help preschoolers with special needs during the pandemicADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY The pandemic and shifts to virtual learning have set many children back academically. The setbacks can be particularly challenging for children with disabilities, but recovery is possible. 616 words. By Michele L. Stites, University of Maryland, Baltimore County and Susan Sonnenschein, University of Maryland, Baltimore CountyOmicron makes booster shots more critical for medically vulnerable seniorsCOMMENTARY Studies suggest seniors without the booster shot run a higher risk of infection and hospitalization from the omicron variant. 679 words. By Laurie Archbald-Pannone, University of VirginiaNew insights from biology can help overcome siloed thinking in cancer clinical trials and treatmentCOMMENTARY Fat cells and cancer cells talk to each other. Specialists in both systems can do the same. 846 words. By Gerald Denis, Boston UniversityA new treatment helped frogs regenerate their amputated legs – taking science one step closer to helping people regrow their body parts, tooSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Unlike humans, many animals are able to regenerate their limbs after losing them. Giving the body the right conditions for regrowth might allow people to recover lost limbs as well. 838 words. By Michael Levin, Tufts University; David Kaplan, Tufts University, and Nirosha Murugan, Algoma UniversityWhat is a bomb cyclone? An atmospheric scientist explainsCOMMENTARY The key ingredients for a storm to undergo bombogenesis are an unstable atmosphere, temperature differences and high-speed winds in the upper atmosphere. 500 words. By Esther Mullens, University of FloridaGut microbes help hibernating ground squirrels emerge strong and healthy in springSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Months not eating or moving don’t result in muscle wasting and loss of function for animals that hibernate. New research found gut microbes help their hosts hold onto and use nitrogen to build proteins. 1144 words. By Hannah V. Carey, University of Wisconsin-Madison and Matthew Regan, Université de MontréalUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.