Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-5G-13th Amendment-Yizker bikher books-------STORIES:The US military presence in Europe has been declining for 30 years – the current crisis in Ukraine may reverse that trendADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY The Pentagon has announced that as many as 8,500 troops have been put on standby to be deployed in Europe as a counter to the threat of the Russian military buildup on Ukraine’s eastern border. 855 words. By Michael A. Allen, Boise State University; Carla Martinez Machain, Kansas State University, and Michael E. Flynn, Kansas State UniversityTechnologyTwo more Poles identified as victims of hacking with spywareMicrosoft profits up 21%, giving cushion for gaming pushCanada investigating cyberattack amid tensions with RussiaDelay in creating new cybersecurity board prompts concernHow 5G puts airplanes at risk – an electrical engineer explainsSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Airplanes use radio waves to determine how far off the ground they are. New 5G cellphone services come close to the same frequencies the airplanes use. Here’s how that can be a problem. 697 words. By Prasenjit Mitra, Penn StateLife’s stages are changing -- we need new terms and new ideas to describe how adults develop and growCOMMENTARY Views of the stages of adulthood are stuck in the early 20th century, even though they’ve changed a lot over the past 100 years. 1034 words. By Jeffrey Arnett, Clark UniversityFrom odor to action – how smells are processed in the brain and influence behaviorSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Understanding how the brain translates smells into behavior change can help advance search and rescue technology and treatments for neurological conditions. 1208 words. By John Crimaldi, University of Colorado Boulder; Brian H. Smith, Arizona State University; Elizabeth Hong, California Institute of Technology, and Nathan Urban, Lehigh University ADVERTISEMENTOffshore wind farms could help capture carbon from air and store it long-term, saving money – a geophysicist explains howCOMMENTARY Wind turbines often can produce more power than is needed. That extra energy could be put to work capturing and storing carbon. 799 words. By David Goldberg, Columbia UniversityThe 13th Amendment’s fatal flaw created modern-day convict slaveryCOMMENTARY The 13th Amendment is given credit for freeing an estimated 4 million enslaved people during the Civil War era. It also enabled a prison system of free labor and involuntary servitude. 1135 words. By Kwasi Konadu, Colgate University and Clifford C. Campbell, Dartmouth CollegeOpioid overdose: A bioethicist explains why restricting supply may not be the right solutionRELIGION Restricting drug access can make the overdose crisis worse, not better. A bioethicist explains what that means for an ethical drug policy. 1157 words. By Travis N. Rieder, Johns Hopkins UniversityYizker bikher books commemorate Holocaust deaths – but also celebrate Jewish communities’ lifeCOMMENTARY International Holocaust Remembrance Day commemorates the murder of 6 million Jews – but also their lives. Yizker bikher books lovingly document Jewish communities across Europe. 704 words. By Jennifer Rich, Rowan UniversityUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.