FRANKFORT, Ky. (AP) — The Kentucky Senate voted Thursday to set ground rules for lawmakers to call themselves back into session if voters give them the new constitutional power later this year.The measure is tied to a proposed constitutional amendment that, if ratified, would give lawmakers the authority to reconvene themselves for up to 12 additional days each year. The bill cleared the Senate on a 28-9 vote and now heads to the House.Republican lawmakers pushing for the new legislative power said it stems from the backlash against Democratic Gov. Andy Beshear’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic.During the early phases of the pandemic, GOP lawmakers found themselves on the sidelines as the governor put restrictions on businesses and gatherings to try to contain the virus’s spread.Now, once lawmakers end regular sessions, they can’t reconvene until the next year unless called into special session by the governor. Governors would still retain the ability to call special sessions.ADVERTISEMENTRepublican Senate President Pro Tem David Givens said Thursday that allowing lawmakers to reassemble on their own would reflect a “true balance” of power between the executive and legislative branches. It would allow lawmakers to reconvene to respond to public demands, he said.Coronavirus pandemicHow many times can I reuse my N95 mask?COVID hits one of the last uninfected places on the planetJapan to watch WHO probe of director's alleged racism, abuseCases plateauing in parts of India but omicron still surgesSen. Morgan McGarvey, the chamber’s top-ranking Democrat, urged lawmakers to slow down to consider the consequences of the guidelines being set for the extra sessions.“This is a major legislative change,” McGarvey said. “And if we treat statutes as laws that are meant to be on the books for years and years to come, then I think this bill leaves a lot of questions.”The debate Thursday was a continuation from the 2021 session. The proposed constitutional amendment won legislative approval last year, and Kentucky voters will decide in this year’s general election whether to give lawmakers the power to meet extra days throughout the year.The Senate-passed measure would put into state law the guidelines for extra sessions called by lawmakers. The bill would take effect only if the constitutional amendment wins voter approval.“I think it’s important that when we ask the voters to make a constitutional amendment, they know what they’re voting on,” GOP Sen. Wil Schroder said. “And we’re providing them with much-needed information that I as a voter would want to have when I vote for a constitutional amendment.”If voters grant them that authority, lawmakers could reconvene through a joint proclamation from the House speaker and Senate president.Under the guidelines, bills failing to receive final action during regular legislative sessions could be held over for potential action in follow-up sessions in the same year. Some opponents warned those rules could allow bills to be rewritten and passed quickly without public input during extra sessions.ADVERTISEMENTKentucky’s regular legislative sessions last for 60 days in even-numbered years and 30 days in odd-numbered years.“If we can’t conclude business in the timeframe that ... this body has done business up ’til now, we’ve got a problem,” said Democratic Sen. Robin Webb.The long Senate debate turned heated at times when some Republican senators lambasted the governor’s handling of the pandemic and said he has steadfastly refused to work with lawmakers. Republicans wield supermajorities in both chambers.“The disdain that this governor has for this chamber and for this body — for the Senate and for the House — this is his board of directors in the state,” Republican Sen. Ralph Alvarado said. “He doesn’t want to communicate with his board of directors.”Responding to the barbs aimed at Beshear, McGarvey said: “I wish I paid as little in rent as the governor pays to be in some of the people’s heads in this chamber.”___The legislation is Senate Bill 88.