MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) — LOOKAHEAD TO THURSDAYIt’s women’s semifinal day at Melbourne Park with two Americans featured. Madison Keys takes on top-ranked Ash Barty and Danielle Collins will play 2020 French Open champion Iga Swiatek. The winners will meet in a Saturday night championship match.Barty is attempting to become the first Australian woman in 44 years to win the Australian singles title. The reigning Wimbledon and 2019 French Open champion holds a 2-1 career edge over Keys, including a win the last time they played in the quarterfinals at Roland Garros in ’19, but she’s wary of the American’s array of shots. “Maddie is an exceptional athlete, she has a great serve, great first-strike off the return and off her first ball after her serve,” Barty said. “A lot of the time it’s about trying to put her in an uncomfortable position.”Keys enters the semifinals on a 10-match winning streak and 11 overall this year, matching her entire win total from 2021. Keys won the Adelaide International tournament earlier this month and has another five wins so far at Melbourne Park. Keys, who reached her first Australian Open semifinal as a teenager in 2015, said: “I’m a little bit more prepared this time around than I was all those years ago.”Australian OpenAustralian Open Lookahead:  Women's semis set for ThursdayMedvedev saves match point, moves into Australian Open semisAP SportlightThe Latest: Medvedev wins in 5, into Australian Open semisADVERTISEMENTCollins has tied her best previous performance at Melbourne Park — she reached the semifinals in 2019, her previous best Grand Slam result. THURSDAY FORECASTCloudy with a chance of thunderstorms. High of 33 Celsius (92 Fahrenheit)WEDNESDAY’S WEATHERSunny, high of 36 Celsius (97 Fahrenheit)WEDNESDAY’S RESULTSWomen’s Quarterfinals: No. 27 Danielle Collins beat Alize Cornet 7-5, 6-1; No. 7 Iga Swiatek beat Kaia Kanepi 4-6, 7-6 (2), 6-3.Men’s Quarterfinals: No. 2 Daniil Medvedev beat No. 9 Felix Auger-Aliassime 6-7 (4), 3-6, 7-6 (2), 7-5, 6-4; No. 4 Stefanos Tsitsipas beat No. 11 Jannik Sinner 6-3, 6-4, 6-2.STAT OF THE DAY: 74 — Minutes between Medvedev saving match point in the fourth set and sealing his quarterfinal win in the fifth.QUOTE OF THE DAY: “I have eternal respect for the Grand Slam winner because it’s such a long way. My God, I have the feeling I’m playing this tournament for a year. I’m so exhausted mentally, physically. When you go all the way and win these freaking seven matches, it’s just huge.” — the 32-year-old Cornet, who took 63 Grand Slams tournaments to reach the quarterfinals.___More AP tennis: https://apnews.com/hub/tennis and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports