FRANKFORT, Ky. (AP) — Gov. Andy Beshear revealed plans Wednesday night to deliver an assistance package for Kentucky communities devastated by recent tornadoes, vowing to “rebuild every structure and every life” in a speech that stressed the state’s resilience to recover from disaster.The Democratic governor, delivering his third annual State of the Commonwealth address, stressed the need for a bipartisan response to the storms that leveled parts of western Kentucky last month, killing 77 people in the state. A New Year’s Day tornado outbreak caused new damage in several Kentucky counties, including some hit hard by the December storms.Beshear, who has had frequent policy feuds with the Republican-led legislature during his term, said he’s working with lawmakers on fast-track legislation to help the communities recover.ADVERTISEMENT“I want every family and community touched by these storms to know that I am with you, the General Assembly is with you, the commonwealth of Kentucky is with you — today, tomorrow, however long it takes,” Beshear said. “We will rebuild. Every structure and every life.”The legislature’s top Republican leaders praised the governor’s message about working collaboratively with lawmakers.“I think the governor set the right tenor and tone about trying to work together,” Senate President Robert Stivers said during an interview on Kentucky Educational Television.Stivers added such collaboration has occurred too infrequently during much of the governor’s term. Beshear, who is preparing for a tough reelection campaign next year, trumpeted the state’s record-setting pace for economic growth in 2021. And he offered hints about the budget priorities he will propose in the spending plan he submits to lawmakers next week.TornadoesBeshear discusses aid plan for tornado-stricken communitiesForecasters confirm 2 New Year's twisters in AlabamaOvernight storms bring damage to parts of US SouthKentucky storm brings flooding, lost power, possible tornadoHe also focused on the state’s ongoing struggles with the COVID-19 pandemic, which has hit the Bluegrass State with another record surge of cases fueled by the omicron variant.“Yet even with these concerns, I remain convinced that we can and will beat COVID, because in 2021 we gained the tools and knowledge we need for victory,” Beshear said.In a speech interrupted frequently by applause in the House chamber, the governor touted the state’s ability to bounce back from the repeated setbacks of the past year.“In Kentucky, we are good people, tough people, resilient people,” he said. “We care deeply for one another. And while they may knock us down, no tornado, no pandemic, no flood, no ice storm can break us. Because we do not break.”Beshear outlined plans to rebuild communities devastated by the tornadoes.The pending legislation will direct $150 million to help storm-stricken communities rebuild and another $50 million to help the region’s schools recover, the governor said. It also will provide “additional tools” to attract and keep jobs in those communities, he said. “It shows that we — Democrats and Republicans, House and Senate, executive and legislative branches — will stand with these families,” he said.Beshear offered a preview of his budget speech planned for next week. The governor said his spending blueprint will include “historic investments” for education, a pay raise for state workers and investments aimed at spurring more economic growth.“I believe a budget is more than lines and numbers,” he said. “It’s a values statement, and my upcoming budget will reflect our Kentucky values of family, faith, community and a deep compassion for our neighbors.”Republican lawmakers, with veto-proof majorities, will ultimately reshape the budget to their liking during the 60-day legislative session that began Tuesday.Top GOP lawmakers have signaled they want to return to passing a two-year budget, after the uncertainties of the COVID-19 pandemic led to one-year budgets the past two years. Much of the budget work will revolve around what to do with unprecedented amounts of surplus state money as well as another huge round of federal pandemic aid.Hitting on a theme likely to be a key part of his reelection message in 2023, the governor touted the state’s economic gains last year. The Bluegrass State had record levels of private-sector investments and job creation and the second-highest wages in state history, he said.Beshear landed a record-shattering economic development deal with Ford Motor Co. that put Kentucky at the forefront of the green energy movement. Ford announced it will build twin battery plants at Glendale, Kentucky, in a joint venture with its battery partner, SK Innovation of South Korea, to help power the automaker’s next generation of electric vehicles. The $5.8 billion Kentucky project will create 5,000 jobs, along with the potential for many more from suppliers.“Our time is here,” Beshear said in his speech. “Kentucky is no longer a fly-over state. We are the destination.”