Audible best-sellers for the week ending December 31: Nonfiction 1. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)2. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 3. The Real Anthony Fauci by Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., narrated by Bruce Wagner (Skyhorse Publishing, Inc.) 4. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 5. If You Tell by Gregg Olsen, narrated by Karen Peakes (Brilliance Audio)6. The Storyteller by Dave Grohl, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)7. Unf--k Your Brain by Faith G. Harper, PhD LPC-S ACS ACN, narrated by the author (Blackstone Audio, Inc.)8. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) 9. Principles for Dealing with the Changing World Order by Ray Dalio, narrated by Jeremy Bobb and the author (Simon & Schuster Audio)ADVERTISEMENT10. This Year Will Be Different by Domonique Bertolucci, narrated by the author (Audible Originals) Fiction1. He Who Fights with Monsters 4 by Shirtaloon and Travis Deverell, narrated by Heath Miller (Podium Audio) EntertainmentTV host Seth Meyers contracts COVID-19, show dark this week David Bowie’s extensive music catalog is sold to Warner'Mudi'? Try a toy: American Kennel Club adds 2 dog breeds Judge tosses lawsuit of man who was nude baby on 'Nevermind'2. American Girl by Wendy Walker, performed by Paige Layle, Carson Beck, Josh Hurley, Alexander Cendese, Carly Robins, Hillary Huber and Molly Secours (Audible Originals) 3. Project Hail Mary by Andy Weir, performed by Ray Porter (Audible Studios)4. The Widow by K. L. Slater, performed by Lucy Price-Lewis (Audible Studios)5. Apples Never Fall by Liane Moriarty, narrated by Caroline Lee (Macmillan Audio)6. The Last Wish by Andrzej Sapkowski, narrated by Peter Kenny (Hachette Audio)7. The Housemaid by Sarah Denzil, performed by Sophie Rundle (Audible Studios)8. Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone, Book 1 by J.K. Rowling, narrated by Jim Dale (Pottermore Publishing)9. Evershore by Brandon Sanderson and Janci Patterson, narrated by Suzy Jackson (Listening Library)10. The Monsters We Make by Kali White, narrated by Mia Barron (Dreamscape Media, LLC)