VANCOUVER, British Columbia (AP) — Connor McDavid scored with 23.4 seconds left in overtime, powering the Edmonton Oilers to a 3-2 comeback win over the Vancouver Canucks on Tuesday night.The Edmonton captain tapped a pass from Darnell Nurse into the net for his 20th goal of the season.The Oilers outshot the Canucks 50-27 but struggled to get pucks past Vancouver goalie Spencer Martin until midway through the third period. Ryan McLeod finally got Edmonton on the board and Leon Draisaitl added a power-play goal to knot the score at 2-2. Mikko Koskinen had 25 saves for the Oilers.Tyler Motte, with a short-handed tally, and Elias Pettersson scored for Vancouver, while Martin had 47 saves. The Oilers came into the game boasting the league’s best power play (30.5%) and were 1-for-4 with the man advantage. The Canucks came in with the worst penalty kill in the NHL (67%) and were scoreless on their lone power play.ADVERTISEMENTEdmonton got on the board 6:33 into the third when McLeod unleashed a rocket from the bottom of the faceoff circle and his shot squeaked between Martin and the post.The goal, McLeod’s fifth of the season, prompted cheers of “Let’s go Oilers!” from the Edmonton fans littered around Rogers Arena.NHLOilers score in OT with seconds left for 3-2 win vs. CanucksOilers rally, topple Canucks 3-2 in OT behind McDavid's goalPredators beat Kraken 4-2 for 3rd straight winMarchment's 2 goals help Florida over Winnipeg, 5-3Moments later, Pettersson ripped a shot from the top of the faceoff circle, clanking it off the far post and in for his 10th goal of the season.NOTES: The Oilers activated forward Ryan Nugent-Hopkins from long-term injured reserve Tuesday. He played his first game since suffering a lower-body injury against the New Jersey Devils on Dec. 31. … Edmonton has placed goalie Mike Smith on long-term injured reserve with a thumb injury. … The Canucks currently have five players in COVID-19 protocol (goalies Thatcher Demko and Jaroslav Halak, and forwards Bo Horvat, Conor Garland and Tanner Pearson). Assistant coaches Scott Walker and Kyle Gustafsson are also on the list. … Vancouver defenceman Tyler Myers played his 800th NHL game.UP NEXTOilers: Host Nashville on Thursday.Canucks: At Winnipeg on Thursday to start a four-game trip.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports