Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Brad Pitt-NATO-Mindfulness-------STORIES:How Brad Pitt’s green housing dream for Hurricane Katrina survivors turned into a nightmareADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY So much went wrong with the homes built by the Make It Right Foundation that its low-income homebuyers were deprived of  the financial security they were promised. 1413 words. By Judith Keller, University of Illinois at Urbana-ChampaignRussia-UkraineUkraine crisis updates: What to know amid the fears of warBiden to meet Qatar leader as Europe energy crisis loomsRussia, US square off at UN Security Council over UkraineBC-The Conversation for January 31, 10am, ADVISORYWhat’s NATO, and why does Ukraine want to join?COMMENTARY One of Putin’s demands for de-escalating conflict with Ukraine is NATO blocking Ukrainian membership. Understanding what NATO is, and why Ukraine wants to join, clarifies why Putin wants this. 912 words. By Alastair Kocho-Williams, Clarkson UniversityCan the US find enough natural gas sources to neutralize Russia’s energy leverage over Europe?COMMENTARY An energy expert explains the challenges of finding alternative natural gas supplies for Europe in case of a Russian cutoff over Ukraine. 1021 words. By Amy Myers Jaffe, Tufts UniversityThere is much more to mindfulness than the popular media hypeRELIGION A scholar studying the relationship of Buddhism and medicine explains how the popular media has misrepresented mindfulness. 937 words. By Pierce Salguero, Penn StateCan delta-8 THC provide some of the benefits of pot – with less paranoia and anxiety?COMMENTARY In the first published survey of users of the hemp-derived compound, respondents highlight some important therapeutic effects. 966 words. By Daniel J. Kruger, University of Michigan and Jessica S. Kruger, University at BuffaloADVERTISEMENTBad managers, burnout and health fears: Why record numbers of hospitality workers are quitting the industry for goodCOMMENTARY New research shines light on what is driving hospitality workers – like waiters and hotel workers – to abandon the industry as part of the ‘great resignation.’ 1150 words. By Andrew Moreo, Florida International University; Imran Rahman, Auburn University; Lisa Cain, Florida International University, and Trishna G. Mistry, University of South FloridaThe IRS already has all your income tax data – so why do Americans still have to file their taxes?COMMENTARY A tax expert explains why the US continues to use such a complex and costly income tax system. 979 words. By Beverly Moran, Vanderbilt UniversityWhy do we bleed? A hematologist explains how the body prevents blood loss after injurySCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Blood plays a vital role in keeping us alive, from delivering oxygen to the body’s organs to fighting off infections. 728 words. By Mikkael A. Sekeres, University of MiamiPope Benedict faulted over sex abuse claims: New report is just one chapter in his – and Catholic Church’s – fraught recordRELIGION Pope Benedict XVI’s many years of wrestling with the abuse crisis highlight the Catholic Church’s broader challenges addressing it. 972 words. By David Gibson, Fordham UniversityUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.