DALLAS (AP) — Roope Hintz and Joe Pavelski scored 75 seconds apart late in the third period, and the Dallas Stars stopped Pittsburgh’s 10-game win streak with a 3-2 victory over the Penguins on Saturday.Hintz scored on a backhand at 16:14 after Pavelski converted a rebound at 14:59, sending the Stars to their fourth straight win.Denis Gurianov also scored and Jake Oettinger stopped 27 shots for Dallas. Jason Robertson assisted on all three goals.Brian Dumoulin and Kasperi Kapanen scored in a 25-second span early in the first period for the Penguins. Tristan Jarry made 29 saves. Pittsburgh had the NHL’s longest winning streak this season. It is 18-1-1 when leading after two periods.PANTHERS 4, HURRICANES 3, OTRALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — Anthony Duclair scored at 2:53 of overtime and Florida beat Carolina.Carter Verhaeghe had two goals and Jonathan Huberdeau had a goal and an assist as the Panthers extended their point streak to six games (5-0-1). Sergei Bobrovsky stopped 24 shots. ADVERTISEMENTTeuvo Teravainen, Brady Skjei and Seth Jarvis scored for the Hurricanes, who never led. They lost for just the second time in 11 games. Sebastian Aho had two assists and Alex Lyon made 32 saves in his second NHL game of the season.NHLDuclair’s OT goal lifts Panthers past HurricanesPredators beat Coyotes 4-2 in penalty-filled gameStars win 3-2 to end Penguins' 10-game win streakPastrnak, Marchand each score twice, Bruins beat LightningIn the extra period, Duclair’s fifth goal in six games since the holiday break came after a Carolina turnover near the blue line. It was Florida’s first shot in overtime.BRUINS 5, LIGHTNING 2TAMPA, Fla. (AP) — David Pastrnak and Brad Marchand each scored twice, Linus Ullmark made 27 saves and Boston beat Tampa Bay.Anton Blidh had the other Boston goal, and Taylor Hall picked up two assists. The Bruins have won four of five in January.Ondrej Palat and Brayden Point scored, and Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 25 shots for the Lightning. They are 8-1-1 in their last 10 homes games.Pastrnak scored twice in the opening 6:10, giving him three goals in the last three games following a nine-game drought. AVALANCHE 5, MAPLE LEAFS 4, OTDENVER (AP) — Devon Toews scored 1:12 into overtime and Colorado rallied from a three-goal deficit to beat Toronto for its franchise-record 11th straight home victory. After Jack Campbell robbed Toews with a diving glove save in the third period, he beat the goaltender between the legs from the left side for his sixth goal of the season. Colorado hasn’t lost at home since Nov. 3 against Columbus and surpassed the previous team record of 10 consecutive home wins set three times before. Auston Matthews scored twice in 33 seconds in the first period and Nick Ritchie added a goal early in the second two days after being waived to put Toronto ahead 4-1. But the NHL’s top offense revved up in the third. ADVERTISEMENTGabriel Landeskog scored his 14th goal to make it 4-3 shortly after Campbell robbed Toews. J.T. Compher tied it at 4 with 8:18 left after a no-look, between-the-legs pass from Mikko Rantanen from behind the net. Rantanen assisted on the last three goals. Alexander Kerfoot had a goal and two assists, and Campbell finished with 45 saves as the Maple Leafs’ four-game win streak was snapped.Nathan MacKinnon scored for Colorado to extend the NHL’s longest active point streak to 13 games. Cale Makar added his 15th goal and an assist for the Avalanche, who have won four straight. Darcy Kuemper was yanked after allowing three goals on eight shots, with Pavel Francouz making 19 saves in relief. SHARKS 3, FLYERS 2, OTPHILADELPHIA (AP) — Tomas Hertl completed his hat trick 24 seconds into overtime to lift San Jose over Philadelphia.Brent Burns assisted on all three goals and Timo Meier had two assists for the Sharks, who finished a 2-2 road trip. Adin Hill stopped 29 shots.James van Riemsdyk scored both goals for the Flyers, who have lost five in a row. Martin Jones made 44 saves.In the extra period, Hertl beat Jones on a 2-on-1 for his team-leading 20th goal, giving him 18 points (12 goals, six assists) over the last 12 games. He also had the overtime winner in the Sharks’ 3-2 home victory over Philadelphia on Dec. 30.BLUE JACKETS 4, DEVILS 3COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Oliver Bjorkstrand scored twice to lead Columbus over New Jersey, halting a three-game skid.Boone Jenner and Igor Chinakhov also scored for the Blue Jackets, who rebounded from Thursday’s loss at New Jersey and beat the Devils on home ice for the sixth straight time. Jakub Voracek and Adam Boqvist each had two assists. Joonas Korpisalo stopped 27 shots for his first win since Nov. 22.Nico Hischier, Jimmy Vesey and Marian Studenic scored for New Jersey. Mackenzie Blackwood made 30 saves.Bjorkstrand broke a 3-all tie exactly five minutes into the third period with his second goal of the night.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports