Reaction to the death of longtime NFL coach and player Dan Reeves:“Legendary NFL player and coach Dan Reeves passed away, peacefully and surrounded by his loving family at his home in Atlanta, GA, early this morning at age 77 due to complications from dementia. His legacy will continue through his many friends, players and fans as well as the rest of the NFL community.” -- Reeves family statement.“Dan was a winner. I owe a lot to him — he was instrumental in my career and growth as a quarterback. We were able to win a lot of football games together, going to three Super Bowls and competing every single year at a high level. With Dan, you knew you were going to be in every game. You always had a chance with him on your sideline. As the head coach, Dan was tough but fair. I respected him for that. We may not have always seen eye to eye, but the bottom line is we won a lot of games together. Looking back, what I appreciate about Dan is how he gradually brought me along to help me reach my potential.” -- Former Broncos quarterback John Elway, now the team’s head of football operations.ADVERTISEMENT“Dan Reeves had a legendary NFL career as both a player and a coach. He made an indelible mark on the league and all of the people he played with, coached and worked alongside. He was one of the finest men I have ever been around in this business.” -- New York Giants co-owner and CEO John Mara.NFLOle Miss QB Matt Corral injured in Sugar BowlBC-Sports-OddsSports Betting LineBC-Sports-Odds“Dan Reeves leaves a lasting legacy in our game as a player and coach. His track record of success in Dallas, Denver, New York and Atlanta over several decades speaks for itself, marking a long and successful life and career in football.” -- Atlanta Falcons owner Arthur Blank.“He taught us how to be men. When I first got there, we used to always stay at hotels (the night before home games). He told us, ‘You’re grown men, you should know what to do to take care of yourself.’ So when he got there, we stayed at our own place, our own house.” -- Former Giants running back Rodney Hampton.“My guy! I am going to miss DR, a first class human, and a most excellent coach. My thoughts and prayers are with Pam, his family. A family man first. Respect & love, RIP Coach Reeves!” -- Former Falcons running back Jamal Anderson.“I’m saddened to hear about the passing of my beloved Coach Dan Reeves. He was a great husband, father and mentor to so many. I loved him like a father and he will truly be missed. My prayers are with his family during this time. Love you, Coach.” -- Former Falcons quarterback Michael Vick.ADVERTISEMENT“A 2014 Broncos Ring of Fame inductee, Reeves led the Broncos as head coach from 1981-92 and was instrumental in the franchise becoming a perennial contender. With competitiveness, consistency and a style all his own, he guided the Broncos to three Super Bowl appearances, five AFC West titles and six playoff berths. ... Reeves coached the Broncos with integrity, character and toughness along with sincere appreciation for his players and coaches.” -- Denver Broncos statement.“Sad to hear about the passing of Dan Reeves. Amazing career in professional football. So glad to have gotten to know him here in Atlanta and so grateful for how nice he always was to my boys when we would see him on Saturday mornings getting bagels.” -- Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan.“When you look at all Dan did in this league with all the success, all the Super Bowls and all the wins, I don’t think there is any question he belongs in the Pro Football Hall of Fame. What he’s been able to do — taking two different teams to four Super Bowls and going to nine Super Bowls overall -- is incredible. That speaks for just how far-reaching his impact was throughout this league not only as a coach but also what he did as a player.” -- Elway.“Coming in, we heard a lot about Dan Reeves, like that he was a tough coach and this and that. Then he got there, and he was totally different. He was a players’ coach. He was amazing. He took care of me. He would understand that I can’t lift all the weights and I can’t do all that running in practice. He would always say, ‘Hey, you do what you got to do on Sundays, and I’ll take care of you during the week.’” -- Hampton.“Dan Reeves was a great person! Loved him and already miss him.” -- Longtime NFL coach Wade Phillips, who succeeded Reeves as coach of the Broncos and served as interim coach after Reeves was fired in Atlanta.___More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/hub/nfl and https://apnews.com/hub/pro-32 and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL