ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) — Kyle Kuzma had 27 points and a career-best 22 rebounds, Bradley Beal scored 20 points and the Washington Wizards rallied in the fourth quarter to beat the Orlando Magic 102-100 on Sunday night.Washington snapped a two-game skid and beat Orlando for a second time this season. The Wizards trailed 71-67 after three quarters but improved to 6-18 when behind entering the fourth. Washington outscored the Magic 29-15 during a seven-minute stretch in the final period to regain control.Kentavious Caldwell-Pope scored 10 of his 14 points and hit both of his 3-pointers in the second half for Washington. His 3-pointer with 2:33 left gave the Wizards a 98-92 lead, its biggest since the opening minutes of the game.Kuzma had 13 rebounds by halftime and became the first Wizard with 20 rebounds since Russell Westbrook did it last season. Twenty of his boards came off the defensive end.ADVERTISEMENTBeal made just 7 of 22 shots and came up short of 25 points for the first time in nine games.He hit just 1 of 2 free throws with 6.8 seconds left to keep Orlando in it. Gary Harris had his 3-point attempt blocked by Beal in the closing seconds, and Chuma Okeke couldn’t convert at the horn.NBACam Thomas lift Nets past Spurs, 121-119 in OTKuzma's 22 boards lift Wizards over Magic 102-100Siakam scores 29, Raptors beat Pelicans for 6th straight winCoffey lifts Clippers to 106-93 win over HawksOrlando lost its season-worst ninth straight game and fell for a seventh consecutive time at home. The Magic dropped to 2-15 at home and haven’t won in Orlando since Dec. 1. The Magic are 1-9 this season against division foes.Terrence Ross scored 32 points for Orlando, which was playing for a second straight night after losing in Detroit on Saturday. Ross had Orlando’s final 16 points of the third quarter and the first four of the fourth period to tie Tracy McGrady for the franchise record for consecutive points with 20. McGrady accomplished the feat in 2003.Franz Wagner, the NBA’s top-scoring rookie this season, finished with 16 points. Cole Anthony made just 4 of 17 shots and finished with just 12 points, eight shy of his season average. The Magic shot only 39.6% from the floor.RUI RETURNSRui Hachimura, who has been out for months with an eye condition and a stint in the NBA’s health and safety protocols, made his season debut. Hachimura, the ninth pick in the 2019 NBA Draft, was diagnosed with bilateral epidemic keratoconjuctivitis (EKC) earlier this season. Hachimura had six points and three rebounds in 14 minutes.TIP-INSWizards: Kuzma broke his previous career high of 17 rebounds, which he accomplished on Oct. 30 against Boston. ... Montrezl Harrell cleared the NBA’s health and safety protocols but the team decided to keep him in Washington. Coach Wes Unseld Jr. said he expects Harrell to be ready to play on Tuesday. ... Davis Bertans returned after missing the previous game with a left foot sprain. ... Anthony Gill missed his fourth straight game while in the NBA’s health and safety protocols.Magic: PF Wendell Carter Jr. missed his second straight game with a sore left hamstring. ... Orlando is 1-8 on the second night of back-to-backs. UP NEXTWizards: Host Oklahoma City on Tuesday.Magic: Play at Washington on Wednesday.___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports