KA’UPULEHU-KONA, Hawaii (AP) — Miguel Angel Jimenez is off to another great start on the PGA Tour Champions in Hawaii.Jimenez, the cigar-smoking, free-spirited Spaniard, birdied the par-4 18th hole in regulation for a 6-under 66 and then beat Steven Alker on the second playoff hole to win the season-opening Mitsubishi Electric Championship at Hualalai for the third time.“It’s a nice way to start a season. It’s nice to be here, winning again in Hualalai,” Jimenez said. “The golf course, I like it very much. The golf course is set up in beautiful condition this year. They make it very good here at Hualalai.”Jimenez won two years ago in a playoff, along with winning outright in 2015. The season opener is for winners from the last two years and senior major champions from the last five years, along with a few sponsor exemptions.Alker had no PGA Tour Champions status late last year under getting it through a qualifier and then finishing in the top 10 each week to keep playing, eventually winning. He also closed with a 66 to join Jimenez at 17-under 199.ADVERTISEMENTThey finished one shot ahead of Vijay Singh and Stephen Ames, who each birdied the final hole for a 68.SportsGould's FG on final play gives 49ers 13-10 upset of PackersMcPherson FG as time expires lifts Bengals past Titans 19-16Friends, playing partners Hodges, Barjon share AmEx leadNadal reaches Australian Open quarterfinals for 14th timeErnie Els, who had the lead going into the final day. couldn’t keep up and had to settle for a 70. He finished three shots behind.Alker had a chance to win with a birdie at the 18th on the first extra hole, narrowly missing the cut. Playing the 18th again in the playoff, his approach came off the green and into a bunker, and he failed to save par.“It was fun to get in position and have a chance,” Alker said.David Duval made his debut on the 50-and-older circuit and closed with a 72 to tie for 34th.Jimenez joined Bernhard Langer as the only three-time winner of the tournament. It was his 11th career victory on the PGA Tour Champions, four of them in playoffs.___For more AP golf coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/golf and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports