PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) — The Oregon Health Authority reported 4,540 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday — shattering the state’s previous record of daily cases, set just five days earlier. Currently, 510 people are hospitalized with COVID-19 in the state, which is less than half the number during the delta variant surge. However local scientists estimate that roughly 1,650 coronavirus patients will be hospitalized statewide on the predicted peak in late January due to the highly contagious omicron variant. Across the country, daily case count records have been surpassed. The number of new COVID-19 cases across the U.S. reached a record-breaking average of 480,000 this week, and some primary care providers fear they will soon be overwhelmed by the surge. Dr. Laura Byerly, the chief medical officer with Virginia Garcia Memorial Medical Center in northwestern Oregon, said her primary care clinics are quickly transitioning back to a telehealth model in anticipation of more staffers getting sick or requiring quarantine. ADVERTISEMENT“We have to do a lot more telemedicine visits than face-to-face because we don’t have the staff to handle the bodies in the building,” Byerly said. “It’s heartbreaking because so much care has been deferred because of previous telehealth needs.”Coronavirus pandemicWhy are so many vaccinated people getting COVID-19 lately?In locked down Chinese city, some complain food hard to getCOVID case counts may be losing importance amid omicronProsecutor drops groping charge against former NY Gov. CuomoOn Monday, Oregon officials reported more than 9,700 new cases of COVID-19 from the holiday weekend, smashing a previous record for weekly coronavirus cases. During that time the state also hit a single-day high for new cases on 3,534 confirmed or presumptive infections. However that record has been replaced by Tuesday’s case count. In addition 18.2% of COVID-19 tests administered over the long weekend were positive for the virus, the Oregon Health Authority said. That’s the highest positivity rate seen in the state so far. Peter Graven, a data scientist at Oregon Health and Science University and author of the influential COVID-19 statewide forecast, predicts that if people take steps to reduce the spread of the virus — such as getting vaccinated and boosted — the surge in hospitalizations would be slightly higher than the number of people hospitalized during the peak of the delta variant, 1,187 people on Sept. 1.But officials say that increase threatens the state’s already strained hospitals who are still dealing with the influx of patients hospitalized during the delta surge. Currently there are only 59 available adult intensive care unit beds and 94% of the state’s staffed adult non-ICU beds are full.During previous surges, to free up space hospitals have postponed elective procedures. In addition, last month Gov. Kate Brown extended Oregon’s declaration of a state of emergency as health officials prepare for an expected surge in COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in the coming weeks. The declaration is necessary in order to provide resources for the state’s COVID-19 response and recovery efforts — allowing for the use of volunteer medical providers in hospitals and at vaccination clinics, providing flexibility around professional health licensing and ensuring that the state has access to federal disaster relief funds. —-Cline is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative. Report for America is a nonprofit national service program that places journalists in local newsrooms to report on undercovered issues.