STAMFORD, Conn. (AP) — Several Connecticut school districts delayed their return to classes Monday following the holiday break, citing the recent surge in COVID-19 cases caused by the omicron variant.The move came after Gov. Ned Lamont said last week that he would not support a return to remote learning in Connecticut school districts.Schools were closed Monday in districts including Westport, Enfield and Region 14 (Woodbury and Bethlehem). Schools in Stratford and Stonington said they would be closed both Monday and Tuesday.Ansonia officials decided Monday afternoon to close schools for the remainder of the week, citing staffing shortages. Superintendent Joseph DiBacco said about 25% of the system’s staff was out sick. He said the lost days will be added to the end of the school year.Other school districts delayed opening for two hours Monday in order to assess and address any staffing shortages due to positive COVID-19 tests.ADVERTISEMENTNew Haven schools managed to open, despite the absence of about 500 of the system’s 4,000 staff members and 52 of its bus drivers, Mayor Justin Elicker said.“I think we’re taking it day by day,” Elicker said. “I would anticipate transportation issues continuing to occur over the next week and potentially the next several weeks.”The state last week reported 1,021 positive COVID-19 tests among school students, despite schools being closed for the holidays. That came a week after the state reported more than 3,000 positive tests among students in grades kindergarten through high school. Coronavirus pandemicOmicron upends return to US schools and workplacesFDA expands Pfizer boosters for more teens as omicron surgesHow will pandemic end? Omicron clouds forecasts for endgameBritish govt rushing tests to schools so classes can reopenThe Lamont administration has told schools that remote learning will only be allowed on a class-by-class basis when there are significant COVID-19 infections. There will be exceptions made for students in special circumstances, such as a medical condition that makes them or a family member unusually susceptible to the virus.“The state of Connecticut does not consider remote learning as an alternative this year to in-school days, and any remote days for the district would need to be made up,” West Hartford Superintendent Tom Moore said in a letter to parents. “We also do not have the staffing necessary to set up a large scale remote learning school like we did last year.”Lamont, speaking in Stamford Monday, said the state is sending 500,000 rapid tests to Connecticut schools over the next few days to make sure staff and students are safe. “I’m really pleased that the overwhelming majority of our schools are open,” he said. But a coalition of educational unions held a news conference after school Monday, saying they were disheartened by the lack of a unified plan for the schools. Kate Dias, president of the Connecticut Education Association, said the coalition has come up with list of nine recommendations to make schools safer, such as a ban on combining classes when a teacher calls in sick, providing N95 masks for all students and providing free access to testing at all schools.“We are really concerned as we’ve gone back to school today and we’ve watched a lack of masking,” Dias said. “Up to 60% of my members don’t have access to masks and more than 70% reported not having access to testing.”Many colleges and universities in Connecticut, including Yale and UConn, have announced they will start their spring semesters online. UConn and other schools, including Connecticut College, also told students they will be required to have booster shots once they are eligible for them.The seven-day rolling average of daily new cases in Connecticut has risen over the past two weeks from 2,306 on Dec. 18 to 5,090 on Jan. 1, according to John’s Hopkins.But Dr. Manisha Juthani, the state’s health commissioner, said most of the cases, especially among the vaccinated, are mild.“As you heard about what happens with viruses as they adapt over time, they do become more infectious and less virulent,” she said. “But for the unvaccinated, this is still a very serious disease.”