LOS ANGELES (AP) — Viktor Arvidsson had two goals and two assists, Todd McLellan earned his 500th win as an NHL coach and the Los Angeles Kings defeated the Philadelphia Flyers 6-3 Saturday night.Arvidsson’s wraparound goal 12 seconds into the game was his seventh of the season and tied for the third-quickest in Kings’ history to start a game. Arvidsson skated around the back of the net and had an opening on the far side of the net as Martin Jones was unable to get his left leg there in time to block it. He is the fourth Los Angeles player to score in the opening 12 seconds of a regular-season game.Arvidsson also had an empty-net goal late in the third period to put the game out of reach for Los Angeles, which is a season-high four games over .500.Trevor Moore had a career-high four points with a goal and three assists. Phillip Danault had a goal and two assists, and Brendan Lemieux and Adrian Kempe also scored for the Kings. Jonathan Quick made 33 saves for his sixth win in his last seven games, and Drew Doughty added two assists.ADVERTISEMENTMcLellan is the 27th coach in league history to reach 500 wins. He is in his third season behind the Kings’ bench after previous stops in Edmonton and San Jose.NHLCanucks score 3 in third period to topple Kraken 5-2Blues beat Wild 6-4 in coldest outdoor game in NHL historyKings beat Flyers 6-3, McLellan gets 500th coaching winMaple Leafs rout Senators 6-0 at empty Scotiabank ArenaJoel Farabee, Kevin Hayes and Ivan Provorov scored for Philadelphia, which had gone 5-0-2 entering the game. Jones stopped 28 shots.Farabee tied it at 1 at the 13-minute mark of the first when he put in the loose puck after Quick made a pad save on Cam Atkinson’s snap shot. Los Angeles regained the lead less than two minutes later when Moore put in a rebound after Danault was unable to score on a wraparound.The Kings extended their lead to 4-1 in the second period on goals by Kempe and Lemieux. Kempe tallied Los Angeles’ first power-play goal in six games 46 seconds into the period on a one-timer off Anze Kopitar’s pass. It was Kempe’s team-leading 14th of the season.Lemieux extended his goal-scoring streak to three games on a breakaway at 13:27. It was also the left wingers’ fifth goal in the last seven games.Goals by Hayes and Provorov came on one-timers, while Danault scored on a wrist shot off a rush.UP NEXTFlyers: Conclude their four-game trip against the Anaheim Ducks on Tuesday.Kings: Host the Nashville Predators on Thursday.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports