Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------STORIES:After Afghanistan, US military presence abroad faces domestic and foreign opposition in 2022ADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY If the United States expects to sustain its global influence, it will have to navigate increasing international and domestic pressure against its foreign military presence. 1162 words. By Michael A. Allen, Boise State University; Carla Martinez Machain, Kansas State University, and Michael E. Flynn, Kansas State UniversityTechnologyGerman watchdog puts Google under closer antitrust scrutinyScaled-back CES gadget show returns to Las Vegas StripWill Elizabeth Holmes' conviction sober up Silicon Valley?Elizabeth Holmes saga still has some loose ends to resolveOnline tools put will-writing in reach for most people – but they’re not the end of the line for producing a legally binding documentSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Online tools promise to democratize estate planning and will preparation, but users are responsible for complying with state laws. 850 words. By Allison Anna Tait, University of RichmondWhen researchers don’t have the proteins they need, they can get AI to ‘hallucinate’ new structuresSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Using a form of artificial intelligence called deep neural networks, researchers can generate new proteins from scratch without having to consult nature. 907 words. By Ivan Anishchenko, University of WashingtonHow cybercriminals turn paper checks stolen from mailboxes into bitcoinSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  A cybersecurity research group has been tracking a significant rise in the number of stolen checks being sold on sites like WhatsApp and Telegram, which often results in stolen identities. 1210 words. By David Maimon, Georgia State UniversityADVERTISEMENT‘Don’t Look Up’: Hollywood’s primer on climate denial illustrates 5 myths that fuel rejection of scienceCOMMENTARY Just because something isn’t 100% certain doesn’t mean you ignore it, and other lessons from two researchers who study the problem of science denial. 980 words. By Gale Sinatra, University of Southern California and Barbara K. Hofer, MiddleburyWhat’s the difference between sugar, other natural sweeteners and artificial sweeteners? A food chemist explains sweet scienceCOMMENTARY Just because something is sweet doesn’t necessarily mean it is sugary. There are a number of molecules that taste sweet. To understand how and why takes a little bit of chemistry. 996 words. By Kristine Nolin, University of RichmondUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.