Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-FARC-Wildfires-Bumble-------STORIES:‘Teaching has always been hard, but it’s never been like this’ – elementary school teachers talk about managing their classrooms during a pandemicADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY Halfway through the school year that was supposed to be a return to normal, teachers are barely hanging on. 848 words. By Laura Wangsness Willemsen, Concordia University, Saint Paul and Elisheva L. Cohen, Indiana UniversityCoronavirus pandemicPfizer begins testing omicron-matched COVID shots in adultsEXPLAINER: What's known about 'stealth' version of omicron?COVID-19 vaccine booster drive is faltering in the USChina's Olympics COVID measures test residents' patienceIt’s just a ‘panic attack’ - Russian media blames US for escalating Ukraine crisisCOMMENTARY America is being ‘hysterical’ about Russian troop buildups near the Ukrainian border. That’s the official news in Russia, where citizens are getting government’s preferred view of the Ukraine crisis. 1126 words. By Cynthia Hooper, College of the Holy CrossRussia’s recent invasions of Ukraine and Georgia offer clues to what Putin might be thinking nowCOMMENTARY Since its independence 30 years ago, Ukraine has tried to balance its Western aspirations with its Russian past. Vladimir Putin is not ready to let go of the past without a possible invasion. 973 words. By Liam Collins, United States Military Academy West PointUS has taken FARC off its terrorist list, giving insight into Biden’s foreign policyCOMMENTARY The U.S. State Department rarely removes terrorist groups from its Foreign Terrorist Organizations list. Most terrorist groups, unlike the Colombian FARC, don’t want to put down their weapons. 886 words. By Jason M. Blazakis, MiddleburyADVERTISEMENTNew federal wildfire plan is ambitious – but the Forest Service needs more money and people to fight the growing risksCOMMENTARY After another devastating wildfire year in the West, the Biden administration has a plan to ramp up forest thinning and prescribed burns. Two foresters explain why these projects are so important. 926 words. By Ryan E. Tompkins, University of California, Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources and Susan Kocher, University of California, Division of Agriculture and Natural ResourcesThe herbicide dicamba was supposed to solve farmers’ weed problems – instead, it’s making farming harder for many of themCOMMENTARY Farmers are stuck in a chemical war against weeds, which have developed resistance to many widely used herbicides. Seed companies’ answer – using more varied herbicides – is causing new problems. 1187 words. By Bart Elmore, The Ohio State UniversityWhen will the COVID-19 pandemic end? 4 essential reads on past pandemics and what the future could bringCOMMENTARY None of our authors can see the future, but many do have expertise that offers insights about what’s reasonable to expect. 837 words. By The pandemic changed death rituals and left grieving families without a sense of closureCOMMENTARY A scholar conducted over 70 hours of  interviews with people involved in the medical and funerary professions to understand the impact of changes in death rituals during the pandemic. 1238 words. By Natasha Mikles, Texas State UniversityOn dating apps, does it really empower women to compel them to make the first move?COMMENTARY Some users say Bumble’s efforts to shake up the gender dynamics of dating fall flat. 969 words. By Riki Thompson, University of WashingtonHow this cycle of redistricting is making gerrymandered congressional districts even safer and undermining majority ruleCOMMENTARY The results of the latest round of redistricting have advanced the anti-democratic trend where elected leaders choose their voters, undermining representative government. 1076 words. By Marjorie Hershey, Indiana UniversityUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.