LOS ANGELES (AP) — Francesca Belibi tied a career-high with 20 points and had 13 rebounds, and Cameron Brink scored 17 points, leading No. 2 Stanford to a 76-48 win over UCLA on Thursday night. Stanford (17-3, 8-0 Pac-12) has won nine consecutive games since its loss to top-ranked South Carolina in December. The Cardinal, alone atop the Pac-12 standings, cruised to a 40-24 halftime lead, largely by shooting 50% (8 for 16) from beyond the arc. The Cardinal finished with 11 3-pointers in the game.Lexie Hull had a great start, scoring 11 of her 14 points in the first quarter, including three of her four 3-pointers in that stretch. UCLA (9-7, 4-5) lost its third consecutive game after winning four in a row. Stanford junior guard Haley Jones missed the game due to health and safety protocols, and Belibi got the start. Jones, who was the Final Four’s most outstanding player last year in leading Stanford to the national championship, is the team’s second-leading scorer at 12.6 points per game. Brink leads the team in scoring. ADVERTISEMENTUCLA guard Charisma Osborne returned to the lineup after missing a game with a right knee injury and scored 12 points. She scored her 1,000th point a week ago against Arizona, but the milestone was overshadowed when she was carried off the court with that injury that, fortunately, wasn’t serious. SportsJaguars hire Super Bowl-winning coach Doug PedersonOlympics a sweet, complex homecoming for Chinese diasporaGoodell pressured by Congress to release Washington reportYoung has 43 points, Hawks end Suns' 11-game winning streakBIG PICTURE Stanford: The Cardinal did whatever they wanted offensively, and that was without Jones. It’s a testament to how deep Stanford is, and even without one of its stars Stanford cruised on the road. Things look good for Stanford in its attempt to win back-to-back national championships. UCLA: The Bruins are now under .500 in the Pac-12. They hope to get healthy and have seven remaining games to improve their seeding for the Pac-12 tournament.UP NEXT Stanford: Plays Sunday at USC. UCLA: Hosts Cal on Sunday.___More AP women’s college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/womens-college-basketball and https://apnews.com/hub/ap-top-25-womens-college-basketball-poll and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25