Connecticut legislators, tasked with deciding whether to extend 11 of Gov. Ned Lamont’s remaining COVID-19 executive orders, heard starkly different opinions Tuesday about whether one order — the statewide mask mandate in schools and child care centers — should end this month, leaving future masking rules up to local officials.Some parents who oppose mask mandates for students said they’re unhappy the Democratic governor’s recommendation  to end the statewide rule Feb. 28 would still allow school districts and governments to impose local masking rules. But the president of the state’s largest teachers union said a majority of her members, according to a recent survey, favor the state making masking decisions.“We need to look for a statewide, science-based decision that reflects the needs of our school employees who have a deep desire to keep schools open,” Kate Dias, president of the Connecticut Education Association, told lawmakers during a special informational hearing. ADVERTISEMENTLamont’s public health and civil preparedness emergency declarations, as well as his remaining COVID-related executive orders, are set to expire Feb. 15. The General Assembly, which is scheduled to open the new legislative session on Wednesday, has been asked by the governor to extend 11 orders. They address issues ranging from the required vaccination of long-term care workers to the modification of state contracting rules to make it easier to buy items in an emergency.Coronavirus pandemicN. Korea increases virus budget after partial border openingNew Zealand convoy protesters clog streets near ParliamentCOVID-19 protests threaten border trade between Canada, USWinners of 2022 duPont-Columbia journalism award announcedAmong the 11 orders is the authority granted to the commissioners of education and public health to set masking rules for schools and child care centers. Lamont wants that extended, but only until Feb. 28. At that time, depending on the state’s COVID situation, the two commissioners would remove the mandate for schools and child care centers, leaving it up to local officials, said Josh Geballe, Lamont’s chief operating officer.If the order is not extended by the General Assembly, the commissioners will not be able to mandate mask wearing in schools between Feb. 15-28, a period of time when the state agencies have planned to come up with guidance for local school districts. Dr. Manisha Juthani, the state’s public health commissioner, said the extra time is also needed to make sure Connecticut’s positivity and hospitalization rates continue to decline.The House of Representatives is scheduled to vote Thursday and the Senate on Monday on whether to extend the 11 orders. That Lamont still has certain emergency powers has fueled political criticism from some Republicans and groups that oppose mask and vaccination mandates.More than 350 people signed up to speak during Tuesday’s online informational meeting. Many included residents who said they’re frustrated with the state’s restrictions and questioned why any of the governor’s executive orders — which topped 300 at one point during the pandemic — still need to be in place two years into the pandemic.“We don’t want a dictatorship. We don’t want an authoritarian government.” said Mona Colwell, of Old Lyme. “We are people. We’re taxpayers. We’re not stakeholders, and we’re not in lockstep with the COVID agenda. We demand our freedoms and our rights and our lives to be restored.”