HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) — Adama Sanogo scored 24 points and grabbed 15 rebounds to lead No. 24 UConn to an 80-72 win over No. 18 Marquette on Tuesday night.Tyrese Martin added 18 points and 15 boards for the Huskies (16-6, 7-4 Big East), who swept the season series with the Golden Eagles. It was Sanogo’s fifth double-double this season and Martin’s third. Olivier-Maxence Prosper scored 18 points while Greg Elliott and Justin Lewis each had 17 for Marquette (16-8, 8-5), which has dropped two out of its last three after winning seven straight.Marquette trailed by by as many as 14 points in the first half and by 10 points at halftime but began chipping away in the second half. A 3-pointer from Elliott cut the UConn lead to 53-50 and free throws from Oso Ighodaro cut the deficit to a single point, but Marquette never took the lead.UConn then used a 10-0 run to stretch the lead back out.ADVERTISEMENTMarquette made a final push, cutting the deficit to 78-72 on a 3-pointer by Lewis with 27 seconds left before Andre Jackson finished the scoring from the foul line. Sanogo had 14 of his points in the first half as UConn used a 17-3 run to build a 38-24 lead. That was sparked when Jordan Hawkins deflected a Justin Lewis shot and hit a 3-pointer on the other end, earning a chest bump from his coach.SportsProsecutors won't file charges against Dodgers pitcher BauerPelicans acquire McCollum in 7-player trade with BlazersPacers deal All-Star Sabonis to Kings in 6-player tradeAntetokounmpo teams with brothers in All-Star Saturday eventA short hook shot in the lane from Sanogo capped the run as the Huskies shot 59% from the floor in the first half. Elliott scored 10 points late in the half to keep Marquette within striking distance. But a Hawkins jumper just before the halftime buzzer sent UConn into the break up 46-36. BIG PICTUREMarquette: The Golden Eagles had won eight of its previous nine, with five of those wins over ranked teams. The only loss during that stretch came at first-place Providence by two points on Jan. 30.UConn: The win snapped a two-game skid for the Huskies, which followed a five-game winning streak. UConn is now 2-2 when playing top 25 programs this season but had not beaten a ranked opponent since its win over Auburn in the Bahamas on Nov. 24. The losses came at Seton Hall and Villanova. UP NEXTMarquette: Travels to Indianapolis to take on Butler on Saturday. UConn: The Huskies play their third straight game against a ranked opponent, visiting No. 25 Xavier on Friday.___More AP college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/College-basketball and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25