It isn’t hard to see that the writing is on the wall for the V8-powered performance coupe. Tightening fuel economy and emissions standards, rising gas prices and the arrival of performance-oriented electric vehicles all point to the end of this famous automotive recipe. When the end will come, we don’t know exactly. But even Dodge CEO Tim Kuniskis acknowledged last year in an interview with CNBC that, “The days of an iron block supercharged 6.2-liter V8 are numbered.”So the car enthusiast’s dilemma might be: Should I buy one now? Whether it’s their distinctive rumbly soundtrack or sleek bodywork, these coupes manage to stir the soul. With that in mind, Edmunds’ editors took a look at the V8-powered cars still on sale today and picked the best to highlight here. We’ve organized the list in ascending order of manufacturer’s suggested retail price, which includes the destination charge.ADVERTISEMENT2022 FORD MUSTANGThe Mustang  has had an undeniable effect on American popular culture, automotive and otherwise, for nearly 60 years. Today, the Shelby GT500 sits atop the Mustang range with its 760-horsepower supercharged V8. However, the standard Mustang GT’s 450-pony 5.0-liter V8 is a better value and a powerhouse in its own right. Other advantages include many standard technology features and precise and grippy handling. On the downside, the Mustang’s rear seats are quite cramped, but that’s a small price to pay to own this American icon.More on Donald TrumpWeisselberg, Trump Organization seek to toss tax fraud caseRepublican voting changes passed by Wisconsin SenateDonald Trump's DNA, not deposition sought in defamation suitFederal judge dismisses Arkansas redistricting lawsuitStarting MSRP: $37,6452022 DODGE CHALLENGERNo other modern coupe better re-creates the classic American muscle car experience than the Challenger. It easily looks the part and even offers not one but three different V8s. There’s up to 807 horsepower at your right foot’s disposal from the supercharged 6.2-liter V8 in the Hellcat Redeye, but our pick is the R/T Scat Pack Widebody. Its 6.4-liter V8 is good for 485 horsepower, and the Widebody’s wider tires and flared fenders give the Challenger some added visual presence. This big coupe isn’t as nimble around turns as the Mustang, but on the open road, it sets the bar for big, silly fun. Starting MSRP: $52,7452022 CHEVROLET CORVETTEThe Chevy Corvette has been powered by a V8 for the majority of its existence. Today, the Corvette can be had with two V8s. The standard car features a 6.2-liter unit that makes up to 495 horsepower. If that isn’t enough to stir your coffee, the 2023 Corvette Z06 features the most powerful non-turbocharged V8 — with 670 horsepower — ever placed in a production car. The Z06 goes on sale late this year. The latest Corvette’s mid-engine design has caused some visibility and ease-of-entry issues, but all around the Corvette stands out with its exotic-like performance.Starting MSRP: $62,1452022 JAGUAR F-TYPEADVERTISEMENTThe Jaguar F-Type has been on sale since 2015, and Jaguar has tried an array of powertrain combinations to try to sell it. For 2022, though, the F-Type is V8-only. You can still have either a coupe or a convertible, with either rear- or all-wheel drive, too. The one to go for is probably the R-badged coupe. Its supercharged 444-horsepower V8 isn’t the most powerful option on this list, but it might just be the best-looking car on this list and it has an exhaust note to match. The only drawback is the F-Type’s technology, which isn’t user-friendly and had a few issues in Edmunds’ testing.Starting MSRP: $72,4502021 LEXUS LC 500While most of the Lexus lineup is powered by four- or six-cylinder engines, the LC 500 features a 471-horsepower 5.0-liter V8. Unlike the brawny Mustang or Challenger, the LC 500 is a luxurious grand tourer that puts a premium on overall excellence and long-haul comfort. Just don’t take too many items with you on a road trip since the LC has the smallest trunk in this bunch. It’s also the most expensive car on our list. However, thanks to its sing-song V8 soundtrack and stunning interior design, the LC is worth the price.Starting MSRP: $94,625EDMUNDS SAYS: We chose the cars on this list as a way of celebrating V8 coupes that more people can get their hands on. The clock is ticking, though, and if you’re interested in an eight-cylinder engine, you might want to act fast_____This story was provided to The Associated Press by the automotive website Edmunds.Nick Yekikian is a news editor at Edmunds. Follow Nick on Twitter