DUBLIN (AP) — Wearing jersey No. 13 is revealing new sides to Josh Adams and Wales coach Wayne Pivac is pleased.Adams has starred on the wing for Wales and the British and Irish Lions for four years but Wales coach Wayne Pivac wants to turn him into a midfield option like he successfully did with the absent George North. Adams is at center for the start of their Six Nations title defense against Ireland on Saturday at Lansdowne Road.“We wouldn’t do it if we thought he couldn’t do it,” Pivac said on Thursday. “It’s not like he’s had one or two training sessions. It’s not foreign to him. He’s really excited about it.”Adams was originally picked in November to make his first test start at center against Fiji but had to withdraw because of a calf injury. He was on the wing the following weekend in the win over Australia. However, not long after that he made a try-scoring start at center for Cardiff against Toulouse and said he enjoyed it. He liked having a few more touches of the ball, and having to communicate more. Pivac picked up on that, too, since he’s brought Adams closer to the action.“A lot of 10s want chat outside them and he’s doing that,” Pivac said. “He’s marshalling the guys around the park as well. Leadership is certainly growing on him.”ADVERTISEMENTJohnny McNicholl was on the wing, and Adams will partner Nick Tompkins in midfield, with no room for the injured Uilisi Halaholo.Back-rower Ross Moriarty, who played his first game last week since a shoulder injury in October against New Zealand, could earn his 50th cap off the bench. Uncapped Ospreys hooker Dewi Lake was also in the reserves.Pivac said the 20-year-old forward Christ Tshiunza was out of the tournament after a hamstring injury in training on Tuesday. He earned his first two caps in November against Fiji and Australia.The lineup was close was to the side which beat 14-man Australia 29-28. “Ireland are a very, very tough, very physical side. So we know we’re going to have to step up in that area and make sure we do that for 80 minutes,” Pivac said. “We’ve got to be very disciplined and as a result be in there fighting for the right result.”Ireland will start favorite, being on an eight-win streak.Coach Andy Farrell surprised on Thursday when he chose uncapped Connacht wing Mack Hansen to debut in place of the injured James Lowe.Australia-born Hansen arrived in Ireland last summer from the Brumbies, and qualified through his Irish mother.He was selected ahead of Keith Earls, Robert Baloucoune and Mike Lowry, and was one of two changes to the starting lineup which beat New Zealand 29-20 in November.While Lions lock Iain Henderson recovered from an ankle injury at their Portugal training camp, he still hasn’t played since mid-December, so Tadhg Beirne was starting in his place alongside James Ryan. Ryan Baird was brought into the reserves.There was no place anywhere for Robbie Henshaw, as Ulster center James Hume, with one cap, was preferred in the reserves.Also, Joey Carbery held on to his spot as the backup flyhalf for Jonathan Sexton despite limited game time after a broken elbow. Jack Carty was tipped for the reserves for his sterling performances for Connacht.___Lineups:Ireland: Hugo Keenan, Andrew Conway, Garry Ringrose, Bundee Aki, Mack Hansen, Jonathan Sexton (captain), Jamison Gibson-Park; Jack Conan, Josh van der Flier, Caelan Doris, James Ryan, Tadhg Beirne, Tadhg Furlong, Ronan Kelleher, Andrew Porter. Reserves: Dan Sheehan, Cian Healy, Finlay Bealham, Ryan Baird, Peter O’Mahony, Conor Murray, Joey Carbery, James Hume.Wales: Liam Williams, Johnny McNicholl, Josh Adams, Nick Tompkins, Louis Rees-Zammit, Dan Biggar (captain), Tomos Williams; Aaron Wainwright, Taine Basham, Ellis Jenkins, Adam Beard, Will Rowlands, Tomas Francis, Ryan Elias, Wyn Jones. Reserves: Dewi Lake, Gareth Thomas, Dillon Lewis, Seb Davies, Ross Moriarty, Gareth Davies, Callum Sheedy, Owen Watkin.___More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports