PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) — Following another sunny revenue forecast in Oregon - fueled by a surge in corporate and income tax revenues - economists said Wednesday that state lawmakers have an additional $800 million to spend this legislative session.In addition, the better-than-expected forecast means that Oregon taxpayers are likely to get another kicker rebate in 2024, on top of the collective $1.9 billion in kicker tax credits this year, state economists predict. “This is a pivotal moment for Oregon,” Gov. Kate Brown said. “We have a windfall of one-time resources this year, and we have the opportunity to make big investments—and to do the big and bold work to help our working families and businesses thrive. We cannot miss this moment.”The forecast comes as state lawmakers are a week into a one-month legislative session. Prior to lawmakers returning to the Capitol, some said — even without the forecast — they expected to spend roughly $2 billion this session. ADVERTISEMENTThe growth in revenue means a larger budget to work with during the short legislative session. But how the money is used remains up for debate“Nice to have more money, and sometimes bad to have more money,” state Sen. Lee Beyer, a Springfield Democrat and chair of the Senate Finance and Revenue Committee, said. “The appetite for expenditures grows, and the real trick… is to use that money wisely on one-time expenses.”BusinessWatchdog says Brexit has brought cost, red tape for UK firmsFederal Reserve Bank of Boston names a new presidentTrudeau defends COVID restrictions amid truck blockadesKerry calls for keeping power markets open in MexicoDemocrats have outlined an ambitious list of priorities this session including affordable housing, increasing child care options, bolstering the state’s workforce, addressing climate change and setting aside a significant amount of money for the next biennium in case state revenues weaken. House Speaker Dan Rayfield, a Democrat, said in a statement he wants to use the additional funds for “critical investments” for areas like schools, job training, working families, housing, small businesses and behavioral health services. Senate President Peter Courtney echoed many of Rayfield’s priorites.“We can build big projects across the state. We can get the homeless off the street. We can do year-round schools. And we can better recruit, train and evaluate police. Much work to do in a very short period,” the Democrat said. On the other side of the aisle, Republicans say they want to use the revenue to address crime, emphasizing a spike in violent crime and illegal marijuana grow operations causing major issues in southern Oregon. Senate Majority Leader Tim Knopp, R-Bend, said he is pushing for an additional $60 million in funding for Oregon State Police Senate, to help local law enforcement with general public safety needs and to combat illegal marijuana grows. Republicans also called for spending $50 million on forest thinning to prevent wildfires.ADVERTISEMENT“Decades of forest mismanagement has left our forests overstocked ready to explode with a single spark,” Knopp continued. “We must act in a bold way to ensure Oregonians are protected from devastating wildfire.”Since the start of the pandemic, state economists have been giving positive revenue forecasts that have far exceeded expectations. Much of the predicted surplus is due to corporate tax revenues, which have continued to surge as businesses raised prices amid supply shortages and found consumers prepared to pay more, economists said. Income taxes are also up, driven by wage increases.Other sources of revenue, like estate taxes and lottery receipts, have also exceeded expectations.Oregon Public Broadcasting reports that in total the surging revenues mean the state is expected to take in $2.7 billion more during the current two-year budget cycle than economists expected at the cycle’s outset in July 2021, a nearly 10% jump.