DENVER (AP) — Monte Morris hit a tiebreaking 3-pointer with 28 seconds left, Nikola Jokic had 18 points, 11 assists and 10 rebounds, and the Denver Nuggets beat the Sacramento Kings 115-110 on Saturday night.It was Jokic’s 16th triple-double of the season and the 73rd of his career. His rebound with 19 seconds remaining finished the triple-double and helped Denver to its second win over the Kings in three nights.He spent most of the night battling Domantas Sabonis, who finished with 14 points and 16 rebounds.De’Aaron Fox had 26 points and 10 assists for Sacramento, which has lost four in a row. Harrison Barnes scored 24 points.The Nuggets trailed by seven late in the third quarter but put together an 18-1 run spanning the third and fourth quarters to lead 94-85. Sacramento scored 10 straight to go up by one, and the teams traded leads over the last 7 1/2 minutes.ADVERTISEMENTAaron Gordon, who had 23 points and nine rebounds, hit a 3-pointer to put Denver ahead 105-104. The Kings rallied to tie it twice before Morris drained the go-ahead basket from the top of the arc. Sabonis missed a layup and Jokic made two free throws with 15 seconds left.Russia-Ukraine ConflictUkraine invasion: What to know as Russian forces target KyivFleeing to the border: Over 150,000 Ukrainians seek refuge Sorting fact, disinformation after Russian attack on UkraineAnti-war sentiment grows in Russia despite govt crackdownTIP-INSKings: C Richaun Holmes (back) missed his second straight game. ... Sacramento swept three games from the Nuggets last season but has lost the first three against them this season. The teams play one more time, March 9 in Sacramento.Nuggets: C Zeke Nnaji (hamstring/knee soreness) missed his fifth game in a row. ... Will Barton moved within one of J.R. Smith for the franchise record in made 3-pointers. He was 3 for 8 behind the line and ended the night with 767 with Denver.CONCERN FOR UKRAINEKings interim coach Alvin Gentry said the team is supporting center Alex Len, whose homeland of Ukraine was invaded by Russia this week. Len and Toronto’s Svi Mykhailiuk are the only two Ukrainian players in the NBA.“He’s very much concerned,” Gentry said of Len. “As things escalate over there, you just have no idea what’s going on and communication has gotten that much more difficult. I just make sure he knows we’re thinking about him and we’re concerned about his family.”UP NEXTKings: At Oklahoma City on Monday night.Nuggets: At the Portland Trail Blazers on Sunday night.