BISMARCK, N.D. (AP) — North Dakota Gov. Doug Burgum and other state officials began the process of developing spending plans Friday for the next two-year budget cycle, a task that comes amid a treasury flush with increased tax collections. Even with state coffers fattened by soaring oil prices and revenue far exceeding forecasts, the second-term Republican governor said fiscal cautiousness will rule the process.“While our economy is strong and revenues are running well ahead of forecast this biennium, we are entering the budgeting process with the same conservative approach we always use, given the costs of rising inflation and the global economic uncertainty stemming from current events,” Burgum said.In January, sales tax revenue in the state of North Dakota exceeded $104 million, the first time sales tax reached triple-digits in nearly three years. Taxable sales and purchases are a key indicator of economic activity in the state, and every major industry reported increases in 2021, state budget writers said this week.ADVERTISEMENTSince the current two-year budget period began in July, North Dakota has received $1.24 billion in oil tax revenue, up from $976 million that had been forecast. BusinessEXPLAINER: What does Ukraine invasion mean for energy bills?Key inflation gauge hit 6.1% in January, highest since 1982Prices are up everywhere with inflation. Except in my 401(k)US, Europe step up Russia sanctions to target Putin directlyOil prices are a key contributor to the wealth of North Dakota, which is the No. 3 oil producer behind Texas and New Mexico. North Dakota budget officials estimate every dollar that a barrel of oil either increases or decreases has a more than $40 million impact on the state treasury annually.Lawmakers last spring assumed oil prices at $50 a barrel when crafting their present two-year budget. Including federal funds, the spending plan is $17 billion, or about $2.1 billion more than the budget cycle that ended June 30.North Dakota oil has been fetching about $68 a barrel in recent weeks. Oil prices are expected to remain high and perhaps increase in coming months with Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.North Dakota’s daily oil production of about 1.1 million barrels is in line with the legislative forecast.The governor took office amid a sharp downturn in tax revenues due to prolonged slumps in oil and agriculture prices. The state’s budget was balanced in his first term through layoffs and raids on state savings.Two years ago, Burgum told state administrators to identify substantial spending cuts and efficiencies to help deal with a state economy that had been battered as officials tried to slow the spread of the coronavirus.In 2018, Burgum directed agencies to slash budgets 5% or 10%, with the larger ones responsible for the bigger cuts. He also called for agencies to identify an additional 3% reduction as a cushion against commodity price swings.Burgum will issue his next directive to agencies in April. He then will use the agencies’ blueprints to draft his own spending recommendations for the Legislature when lawmakers meet in January.