1 of 2Los Angeles Rams wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr., right, is congratulated by running back Sony Michel (25) after scoring a touchdown against the Arizona Cardinals during the first half of an NFL wild-card playoff football game in Inglewood, Calif., Monday, Jan. 17, 2022. (AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez)1 of 2Los Angeles Rams wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr., right, is congratulated by running back Sony Michel (25) after scoring a touchdown against the Arizona Cardinals during the first half of an NFL wild-card playoff football game in Inglewood, Calif., Monday, Jan. 17, 2022. (AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez)A $2 million grant is being provided to Los Angeles communities through funding from the NFL Foundation, the Los Angeles Super Bowl Host Committee, the LA84 Foundation, and the Play Equity Fund.Each grant will support the Champions Live Here initiative, which has shined a spotlight on the achievements of 56 local organizations focusing their work on youth development, jobs and economic opportunity, and social justice.The Legacy Program has awarded each of the selected organizations a $10,000 grant; a professionally produced vignette-style video spotlighting the organization; and supplied recognition for their work in the lead-up to the Super Bowl. Six of these 56 organizations were selected in December to each receive a total grant award of $50,000 to make an even bigger impact in their community. “The Super Bowl 56 Legacy Program will expand the work of a variety of partners who are committed to finding solutions to the challenges that exist for kids in under-resourced communities,” said Renata Simril, president and CEO of the LA84 Foundation. “These are challenges every city faces, but they aren’t insurmountable if we work together. The NFL has dedicated resources to support unsung heroes who are making the Los Angeles region better, and is shining a spotlight on their work to inspire others to join in. This partnership will bring play and sports to neighborhoods where kids don’t have the chance to play, to address the play equity gap and make these young lives better. That’s the real legacy of Super Bowl 56.”Super BowlRams, Bengals have enough stars to keep attention on fieldBengals seek 1st Super Bowl title versus Rams Super Bowl performers vow to open doors for more hip-hopLegacy grant provides $2 million to Los Angeles communitiesADVERTISEMENTNFL WIVESOff the Field, the official NFL players’ wives association, and Hall of Fame Health are partnering to help with health care for families. Hall of Fame Health, which launched two years ago, seeks to bring world-class health care solutions and services to those in the football community. Its focus is not only on former players but on wives, children and other family members or dependents.A 16-year-old organization, OTF seeks to empower its more than 12,000 members nationwide by creating opportunities to impact communities across the United States through philanthropic endeavors that focus on families.“This may be the most important relationship we will ever form,” said Jeremy Hogue, CEO of Hall of Fame Health. “These are strong women, and like most women across the country, they typically make the decisions regarding health care in their homes. They ensure their husbands get the care they need and their kids get the care they need. We want to support them and make that process easier, and also make sure they don’t sacrifice themselves in the process, and get the care they need as well.” Hall of Fame Health offers a concierge service; partnerships with health systems and medical groups; assistance on insurance and benefit issues; and a comprehensive behavioral health network with providers across all levels of care.ADVERTISEMENT“I’m looking forward to this much-needed partnership to ensure NFL wives are getting the most value from our benefits,” said Rachel McKenzie, OTF president and wife of 11-year NFL veteran Mike McKenzie. “Together, we will help reduce time spent with the intricacies of disability benefits and much more.”CLOSE CALLSGreen Bay coach Matt LaFleur is the repeat winner of the EdjSports Coach of the Year award.The analytics company ranks coaches based on how they handle fourth-down calls and other decisions with its Critical Calls Index, as well as a power ranking of the performance by teams to come up with a season-long ranking.LaFleur ranked eighth in the Critical Call Index and third in the power ranking to claim the top overall spot ahead of Indianapolis’ Frank Reich. The only other coaches to finish in the top 10 in both categories were Reich, Kansas City’s Andy Reid and Buffalo’s Sean McDermott.Chargers first-year coach Brandon Staley got the top spot in the Critical Calls Index after his aggressive season going for it on fourth downs.The two Super Bowl coaches came in further down the list, the Rams’ Sean McVay ranking 14th overall and Cincinnati’s Zac Taylor 19th.LACES OUTThe shoe laces Los Angeles Rams running back Sony Michel will wear in Sunday’s game will be donated to be made into two bracelets.Rastaclat founder Daniel Kasidi will make the bracelets. One will be given to Michel and the other will be auctioned off, with proceeds benefiting the Los Angeles Boys & Girls Club.“I am excited to partner with Rastaclat and give back to the Los Angeles community in a cool and creative way,” Michel said in a statement. “It is incredible that Rastaclat changes something as simple as my football cleat laces into a work of art. I am looking forward to a great partnership with the company.”Michel is averaging eight carries in the Rams’ three postseason games. ___AP Pro Football Writers Josh Dubow, Simmi Buttar, Teresa M. Walker and Barry Wilner and Sports Writer Joe Reedy contributed.___More AP Super Bowl coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/super-bowl and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL