Nonfiction 1. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)2. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)3. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 4. Life Force by Tony Robbins, Peter H. Diamandis and Robert Hariri, narrated by Jeremy Bobb, Tony Robbins, Peter Diamandis, Ray Kurzweil and Cassandra Campbell (Simon & Schuster Audio)5. From Strength to Strength by Arthur C. Brooks, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)6. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 7. The Great Reset by Glenn Beck and Justin Trask Haskins, narrated by Glenn Beck (Mercury Radio Arts, Inc.)8. The Psychology of Money by Morgan Housel, narrated by Chris Hill (Harriman House)9. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) ADVERTISEMENT10. Unf--k Your Brain by Faith G. Harper, PhD LPC-S ACS ACN, narrated by the author (Blackstone Audio, Inc.)Fiction1. Impact Winter by Travis Beacham, performed by full cast (Audible Originals)EntertainmentScreaming Trees singer, Seattle icon Mark Lanegan dies at 57Oscars slim down, will hand out 8 awards ahead of broadcastDecades later, gay country pioneers Lavender Country returnInside a special Black History Month rite at 'The Lion King'2. House of Sky and Breath by Sarah J. Maas, performed by Elizabeth Evans (Audible Studios)3. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)4. Sierra Six by Mark Greaney, performed by Jay Snyder (Audible Studios)5. Kismet by Lauren Blakely, performed by Julia Whelan and Shane East (Audible Originals)6. Quicksilver by Dean Koontz, narrated by Todd Haberkorn (Brilliance Audio)7. Unmissing by Minka Kent, narrated by Carly Robins and Jane Oppenheimer (Brilliance Audio)8. Diablo Mesa by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child, narrated by Cynthia Farrell (Grand Central Publishing)9. The Maid by Nita Prose, narrated by Lauren Ambrose (Random House Audio)10. Gwendy’s Final Task by Stephen King and Richard Chizmar, narrated by Marin Ireland (Simon & Schuster Audio)