HOUSTON (AP) — The Houston Texans on Monday announced their full coaching staff under new coach Lovie Smith. The Texans previously said that Pep Hamilton would be promoted from quarterbacks coach to offensive coordinator and that Frank Ross would remain the special teams coordinator. Smith, who served as Houston’s defensive coordinator last season, said when he was hired that he would continue to call the defensive plays this season and that they would not hire a new defensive coordinator. Smith was hired Feb. 7 to replace David Culley, who was fired after just one season. New additions to the staff include tight ends coach Tim Berbenich, who spent last season as a running backs coach for the Raiders and offensive line coach George Warhop, who had the same job in Jacksonville for the past three seasons.Jacques Cesaire takes over as defensive line coach after spending the past two seasons as assistant defensive line coach for the Bills. Ted White is the team’s new quarterbacks coach and Joe Danna will coach safeties. ADVERTISEMENTBen Bolling and Dele Harding have been added to the staff as defensive assistants and Robbie Picazo joins the team as an offensive assistant. Hal Hunter is the assistant offensive line coach and Kenyon Jackson is the assistant defensive line coach. Las Vegas RaidersTexans complete coaching staff under new coach Lovie SmithSuper Bowl run excited fans, but Bengals still need workPatriots promote Groh to director of player personnelTrace Adkins to sing national anthem at sold-out Daytona 500Sean Baker is returning as special teams assistant and Danny Barrett remains the team’s running backs coach. Dino Vasso returns for a second season as cornerbacks coach and Ilir Emini will be a defensive assistant for a second year.Smith’s son, Miles Smith, is back for a second season as linebackers coach and Ben McDaniels becomes the team’s passing coordinator and receivers coach after working last season as the assistant receivers coach. DeNarius McGhee returns for his third season as an offensive assistant.___More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/hub/NFL and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL