CHICAGO (AP) — DeMar DeRozan scored 19 of his 40 points in the fourth quarter, and the Chicago Bulls beat the San Antonio Spurs 120-109 on Monday night for their fourth straight victory.It was DeRozan’s seventh consecutive game with at least 30 points, extending his career high. The All-Star is the first player with such a streak for the Bulls since Michael Jordan during the 1996-97 season.Nikola Vucevic had 25 points and 16 rebounds for Chicago, which lost 131-122 at San Antonio on Jan. 28. Coby White made five 3-pointers and finished with 24 points.The Bulls played without All-Star Zach LaVine, who missed his second straight game due to periodic soreness in his surgically repaired left knee. Coach Billy Donovan said LaVine also will miss Wednesday night’s matchup with Sacramento.San Antonio had won three of four. Lonnie Walker IV scored 21 points for the Spurs, and All-Star Dejounte Murray had 19 points and 11 assists.ADVERTISEMENTSan Antonio closed the third quarter with an 8-2 spurt for an 89-83 lead. Walker had nine points in the period, including a layup with 24.5 seconds left.But DeRozan opened the fourth with a three-point play, and he poured it on from there. He scored 13 points in the first four minutes of the quarter. His layup with 7:20 left gave Chicago a 102-99 lead.San Antonio SpursDeRozan scores 40 as Bulls rally past Spurs 120-109Bulls G LaVine to meet with doctors about left knee sorenessDeRozan leads Chicago into matchup against San AntonioMurray's 31 points power Spurs past Pelicans, 124-114With the United Center crowd chanting “M-V-P! M-V-P!” DeRozan made two foul shots and then fed Vucevic for a fast-break layup that made it 114-108 with 1:53 remaining.DeRozan finished with seven assists. He leads the NBA with 431 fourth-quarter points.TIP-INSSpurs: G Josh Richardson, G Tomas Satoransky and G/F Romeo Langford were active, but did not play. Richardson, Satoransky and Langford were acquired last week in a pair of trades. “It’s exciting to be able to come in here and help these young guys figure out how to play and how to grow,” Richardson said. “I’ve been through a lot of stuff that they’re going through already, so I feel like I can be just another voice, if anything, to kind of even things out.” Bulls: F Javonte Green (sore right foot) played after missing Saturday night’s 106-101 victory over Oklahoma City. “They did an MRI, imaging, all that stuff, and everything came back clean,” Donovan said.UP NEXTSpurs: At Oklahoma City on Wednesday night. The teams split the first two games of their season series.Bulls: Host the Sacramento Kings on Wednesday night. The teams split the two-game season series last year.___Jay Cohen can be reached at https://twitter.com/jcohenap___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports