Stocks rose broadly in morning trading on Wall Street Wednesday, putting the market further into the green for the week after a solid gain a day earlier. The S&P 500 rose 1.1% as of 10:20 a.m. Eastern. More than 90% of stocks in the benchmark index gained ground. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 295 points, or 0.8%, to 35,758 and the Nasdaq rose 1.1%.Technology and communications stocks were among the biggest gainers. Microsoft rose 1.1% and Google’s parent company, Alphabet, rose 1.8%,.Companies that rely on spending by consumers, including retailers and hotel operators, also made rose. Home Depot climbed 1.3% and Marriott added 1.5%.Bond yields edged lower. The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell to 1.93% from 1.95% late Tuesday. It’s still the highest it’s been since before the pandemic began.Investors are busy reviewing the latest corporate earnings as they try to determine how different industries are dealing with persistent supply chain problems. That is one of the factors pushing inflation higher and making operations more costly for companies while making products more expensive for consumers.ADVERTISEMENTBusinessSenators call for gas tax suspension to blunt rising pricesWatchdog says Brexit has brought cost, red tape for UK firmsSweden ends COVID-19 testing as pandemic restrictions liftedSuper Bowl's return provides boost to hard-hit LA businessesWall Street will get another update Thursday on rising prices when the Labor Department releases its report on inflation for January. Economists are forecasting the report to show inflation rose to a four-decade high 7.3%.Persistently rising inflation could increase pressure on the Federal Reserve to speed up plans to raise interest rates in order to fight inflation.Investors expect the Fed to raise rates at least four times this year, starting next month. They remain concerned that the Fed may need to raise rates more often than that if inflation pressure remains high. As a result, markets have become more volatile as investors shift money around to prepare for an investing environment with higher interest rates following an extended period of ultra-low interest rate policy throughout the pandemic.Wall Street mostly cheered the latest round of corporate report cards on Wednesday. Chipotle Mexican Grill rose 7% after beating analyst’s fourth-quarter earnings and revenue forecasts. Taco Bell owner Yum Brands rose 3.7% after reporting strong fourth-quarter revenue.Drugstore chain CVS fell 4.5% after giving investors a discouraging earnings forecast.Disney reports its latest results after the closing bell. Twitter and Coca-Cola report their results on Thursday.