BOSTON (AP) — Sidney Crosby scored his 499th career regular-season goal as the Pittsburgh Penguins rallied from a two-goal deficit and beat the Boston Bruins 4-2 on Tuesday night. Danton Heinen scored twice in a span of 28 seconds in the second period and Crosby added another score with 7:07 left in the frame, moving him within one goal of joining Washington’s Alex Ovechkin as the only active players to score 500 goals in the regular season. Tristan Jarry stopped 43 shots for the Penguins, and Bryan Rust scored into an empty net with 1:29 left in the third as Pittsburgh snapped a four-game winless streak. David Pastrnak scored twice for the Bruins, who outshot the Penguins 45-25 but couldn’t get anything past Jarry after the first period. Jeremy Swayman finished with 21 saves.DEVILS 7, CANADIENS 1MONTREAL (AP) — Michael McLeod scored twice and New Jersey beat Montreal to snap a seven-game losing streak.ADVERTISEMENTThe Devils also got goals from Dawson Mercer, Nico Hischier, Jesper Boqvist, Pavel Zacha and Tomas Tatar in his first game back in Montreal.Brett Kulak had Montreal’s lone goal. Jon Gillies stopped 29 of 30 shots for the Devils. Montreal’s Cayden Primeau allowed seven goals on 34 shots.HockeyLocked out MLB players reject offer of federal mediationSoFi Stadium ready to bring Hollywood opulence to Super BowlJuggling act: Rams O'Connell game planning and looking aheadBearcats, Bengals finally gave Cincy fans reason to cheerBLUE JACKETS 5, CAPITALS 4WASHINGTON (AP) — Boone Jenner scored his 19th goal with 44.4 seconds remaining and Columbus posted a wild victory over Washington.Jenner scored less than two minutes after Washington’s Tom Wilson tied the game on a 6-on-5 chance. The Blue Jackets rallied from an early 2-0 deficit.Patrik Laine scored his 11th and 12th goals of the season, Trey Fix-Wolansky gave Columbus its first lead in his NHL debut and Adam Boqvist added a goal and an assist. Laine also assisted Jenner’s winner, and Gustav Nyquist had two assists.Elvis Merzlikins made 29 stops for the Blue Jackets, who began a season-long, five-game road trip with their third consecutive road win.Nic Dowd had a goal and an assist for the Capitals, who lost their second in a row and for the fourth time in six games, all in regulation. Evgeny Kuznetsov scored his 15th goal of the season and Wilson had his 19th. Garnet Hathaway also scored for Washington.Capitals all-time leading scorer Alex Ovechkin recorded his 30th assist in his return from the league’s COVID-19 protocol list.SENATORS 4, HURRICANES 3OTTAWA, Ontario (AP) — Brady Tkachuk snapped a 15-game scoring drought with a pair of goals, leading Ottawa past Carolina.Alex Formenton and Chris Tierney also scored, and Tim Stutzle chipped in with two assists for Ottawa. Anton Forsberg stopped 42 shots.Andrei Svechnikov, Brendan Smith and Vincent Trocheck scored for the Hurricanes. Antti Raanta faced 31 shots.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports