NFLWASHINGTON (AP) — Washington’s NFL team is now known as the Commanders.The new name unveiled Wednesday comes 18 months after the once-storied franchise dropped its old moniker following decades of criticism that it was offensive to Native Americans and under fresh pressure from sponsors. The organization committed to avoiding Native American imagery in its rebrand after being called the Washington Football Team the past two seasons.Washington is the latest American major professional team to abandon its name linked to Native Americans, and it was considered one of the most egregious.LOS ANGELES (AP) — Three days after being photographed without a face mask at the NFC championship game, Mayor Eric Garcetti and other officials urged fans headed for the Super Bowl to strictly adhere to pandemic safety protocols that include staying masked, except while eating or drinking.ADVERTISEMENTThe Los Angeles area continues to see high levels of COVID-19 infections, and ticket holders ages 5 and older must show proof of vaccination or a recent negative COVID-19 test to enter. Under a Los Angeles County health order, masks are required at all times, with limited exceptions.Coronavirus pandemicWith COVID staffing crunch, who’s going to teach the kids?EXPLAINER: COVID vaccines for kids under 5: What's next?‘Take back life’: More nations ease coronavirus restrictionsArmy to immediately start discharging vaccine refusersThe biggest challenge at the Super Bowl might not be on the field, with officials acknowledging there was no way to constantly police 70,000 people. NHLWASHINGTON (AP) — Washington Capitals star Alex Ovechkin will miss the NHL All-Star Game in Las Vegas on Saturday after entering the league’s COVID-19 protocols Wednesday.Ovechkin was going to play in his eighth All-Star Game. He’s tied for third in the NHL with 29 goals and is fourth on the career list with 759.COLLEGE FOOTBALLJim Harbaugh will stay at Michigan after all. He has ended his dalliance with a return to the NFL after interviewing with the Minnesota Vikings for their head coach vacancy. Harbaugh withdrew from consideration Wednesday and will be back at his alma mater for an eighth season. No offer of the job was made to Harbaugh, according to a person with knowledge of the decision. The person spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because details of the process were not being made public by the university or the Vikings.—By AP Sports Writers Dave Campbell and Larry Lage.NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — Tennessee State’s president says Jackson State’s decision to withdraw from the Southern Heritage Classic with three years left on the current contract is “insensitive and irresponsible” with implications far beyond football. President Glenda Glover issued a statement Wednesday saying Tennessee State learned of Jackson State’s decision through a national scheduler. The only reference to the 2022 schedule currently on the Jackson State athletics website is a mention that the 2022 schedule will be released Monday. ADVERTISEMENTThe Southern Heritage Classic has been played in Memphis at the Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium since 1990. SOCCERThe Washington Spirit have signed Trinity Rodman to the richest contract in the history of the National Women’s Soccer League. The extension with the 19-year-old daughter of NBA great Dennis Rodman is worth at least $1.1 million over four years, according to the Washington Post. Octagon Soccer, which represents Rodman, announced that the deal makes Rodman the league’s highest-paid player. Rodman was the No. 2 overall pick in the 2021 NWSL draft by the Spirit, which went on to win the league championship. She scored seven goals and had seven assists, and was named the league’s Rookie of the Year. WOMEN’S COLLEGE BASKETBALLStony Brook’s basketball teams will need to receive at-large bids to the NCAAs if the Seawolves want to make it to the tournament this year.The America East announced Wednesday that the school is ineligible for conference postseason tournaments because it’s leaving for the Colonial Athletic Association next year. Stony Brook said last week it was leaving the America East.In the America East bylaws, a member institution’s intention to withdraw from the conference makes that school’s sports teams ineligible to compete in the league’s postseason play, “on a date to be determined by the remaining members of the Board of Presidents.”LAWSUITSBrian Flores says his lawsuit against the NFL over alleged racist hiring practices will continue even if he becomes a head coach again this offseason. Flores has interviewed with the Houston Texans and New Orleans Saints, who have yet to fill their coaching vacancies. If they call, Flores will listen, but he said the suit will go on because the league needs change.Flores said he knows others have similar stories and that it is hard to speak out. He called his potential sacrifice bigger than football or coaching. The NFL is at a fork in the road, he said.___More AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/apf-sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports