___Stocks fall, this time on Ukraine worries, to cap rough weekNEW YORK (AP) — Stocks tumbled again Friday, and this time bond yields joined in the swoon as worries about an imminent Russian invasion of Ukraine piled onto Wall Street’s already heavy list of concerns about inflation and interest rates. The S&P 500 lost 1.9% after the White House encouraged all U.S. citizens to leave Ukraine within the next 48 hours, before possible military action by Russia. Similar, knee-jerk swings swept through other markets as investors pulled money out of riskier things like stocks and moved instead toward the safety of bonds and gold. The price of oil rose more than 3%.___Super Bowl ads look toward the future — and the pastNEW YORK (AP) — Super Bowl advertisers this year want Americans to forget about pandemic woes and focus on the future: of electric vehicles, mind reading Alexas, robots and cryptocurrency. And also to harken back to the nostalgic past with nods to ’90s movies like “Austin Powers” and “The Cable Guy.” The ads aim to deliver a dose of escapism with light humor and star-studded entertainment as America remains mired in the pandemic and high inflation. The Los Angeles Rams are taking on the Cincinnati Bengals in Super Bowl 56 on Sunday. But for many, the big show of the night will be the commercials.Russia-UkraineUS ramps up Ukraine warning, says Russia may invade any dayUkraine-Russia crisis: What to know about the fears of warBusiness Highlights: Wall Street drop, Super Bowl adsStocks fall, this time on Ukraine worries, to cap rough weekADVERTISEMENT___How inflation and tangled supply lines are gripping economyWASHINGTON (AP) — High inflation and tangled supply chains have seeped into nearly every nook of the economy, forcing consumers and businesses to make painful decisions that many of them have never had to contemplate before. With the government reporting Thursday that consumer inflation reached 7.5% over the past year — a 40-year high — the acceleration of prices is leaving few unscathed. The key trends that have sent prices soaring — higher wages, parts shortages, rising rents, robust consumer spending, clogged ports and warehouses — won’t likely fade anytime soon. And so it’s unclear when, or how far, prices will actually decline. ___Canadian authorities turn up the pressure on protestersWINDSOR, Ontario (AP) — Canadian authorities are turning up the legal and public pressure on protesters to lift their blockades in Ottawa and at the U.S. border, with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau warning: “This unlawful activity has to end and it will end.” Federal, provincial and local officials are moving simultaneously on different fronts to break the standoff, which began with truckers and others angry over the country’s COVID-19 restrictions and has morphed into a broader attack on Trudeau and his Liberal government.___Why cage-free eggs becoming norm: It’s what people wantADVERTISEMENTDES MOINES, Iowa (AP) — The nation’s egg producers are in the midst of a multibillion-dollar shift to cage-free eggs that is dramatically changing the lives of millions of hens in response to new laws and demands from restaurant chains. In a decade, the percentage of hens in cage-free housing has soared from 4% in 2010 to 28% in 2020, and that figure is expected to more than double to about 70% in the next four years. The change marks one of the animal welfare movement’s biggest successes after years of battles with the food industry. The transition has cost billions of dollars for producers who initially resisted calls for more humane treatment of chickens but have since fully embraced the new reality. ___US judge strikes down Biden climate damage cost estimateWASHINGTON (AP) — A federal judge on Friday blocked the Biden administration’s attempt to put greater emphasis on the potential damage from greenhouse gas emissions in the federal rulemaking process. Known as the “social cost of carbon,” the estimate is a key component of federal rules for oil and gas drilling, automobiles and other industries. On his first day in office, President Joe Biden restored a higher cost estimate set in 2016. The Biden administration’s revival of a higher figure would make rules aimed at addressing climate change more economically justifiable. Republican attorneys general led by Louisiana’s Jeff Landry said Biden’s action illegally exceeded his authority by basing the figure on global considerations.___Landlords finding ways to evict after getting rental aidWASHINGTON (AP) — A growing number of landlords are taking federal rental assistance to cover months of back rent but still moving to evict tenants. Housing advocates say there are loopholes in the $46.5 billion Emergency Rental Assistance program that lead to tenants struggling to find safe and affordable housing. But the Treasury Department, which oversees the program, says it has no data to suggest that landlords evicting tenants after getting assistance is a “pervasive issue” but that it was “completely unacceptable.”___Virginia man faces prison after disrupting flight in AprilPENSACOLA, Fla. (AP) — A Virginia man faces time in prison after pleading guilty to interfering with the crew on a United Airlines flight last year. Prosecutors say 29-year-old Kameron Stone of Fairfax, Virginia, tried to open the cockpit door and struck a flight attendant who tried to stop him. The flight attendants suffered bruising to her chest, face, arm and shoulder. According to court documents, three other passengers restrained the man, and that’s when three mini-bottles of vodka fell out of his pocket. Airlines have filed more than 6,000 complaints of unruly passengers since the start of last year. ___The S&P 500 lost 85.44 points, or 1.9%, to 4,418.64. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 503.53 points, or 1.4%, to 34,738.06. The Nasdaq dropped 394.49 points, or 2.8%, to 13,791.15. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies shed 21.02 points, or 1%, to 2,030.15.