Another Beijing Olympics with human rights still major issue





BEIJING (AP) — Beijing was awarded the 2008 Summer Olympics, largely under the assumption that the Games would improve civil liberties in the country. There is no such talk now. The 2022 Winter Olympics open Friday under heavy security and warnings from officials that athletes or others could face legal action if they speak out on human rights or other touchy issues. The Games are a reminder of both China’s rise and its disregard for civil liberties, which has prompted a diplomatic boycott led by the United States. Rights groups have documented forced labor, mass detentions and torture, and the U.S.Winter OlympicsOlympian moved to village after tearful video in isolationThe Latest: 55 new COVID-19 cases at Beijing OlympicsCzechs beat China 3-1, win Olympic debut in women's hockeyEXPLAINER: Peng Shuai case shows barriers Chinese women faceADVERTISEMENTFor Uyghur torchbearer, China’s Olympic flame has gone dark





TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP) — At the age of 17, Kamaltürk Yalqun was chosen to help carry the Olympic flame ahead of the 2008 Summer Games in Beijing, where he later represented his home region in western China. Today, he is an activist in the United States calling for a boycott of the 2022 Winter Games, which has seen the Olympic flame returned to Beijing. “It seems to me that our sense of global citizenship and sportsmanship is not moving forward with these Olympic Games anymore,” he said in a phone interview from Boston, where he lives in exile. Set to open on Friday in Beijing, the Winter Games are already attracting global controversy as they spotlight the host country’s treatment of the Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities.President Xi Jinping, China’s ‘chairman of everything’





ADVERTISEMENTBEIJING (AP) — The last time the Olympics came to China, he oversaw the whole endeavor. Now the Games are back, and this time Xi Jinping is running the entire nation. The Chinese president, hosting a Winter Olympics beleaguered by complaints about human rights abuses, has upended tradition to restore strongman rule in China and tighten Communist Party control over the economy and society. Xi was in charge of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing that served as a “coming-out party” for China as an economic and political force. A second-generation member of the party elite, Xi became general secretary of the party in 2012.Japan border policy keeps thousands of foreigners in limbo





TOKYO (AP) — More than a year ago Sebastian Bressa finished his paperwork to become a language teacher in Tokyo and made plans to quit his job in Sydney. His life has been in limbo ever since. Japan has kept its door closed to most foreigners during the pandemic, and the 26-year-old Australian is one of hundreds of thousands denied entry to study, work or see their families. Japan has become one of the world’s most difficult countries to enter and some are comparing it to the locked country, or “sakoku,” policy of xenophobic warlords who ruled Japan in the 17th to 19th centuries.EXPLAINER: Peng Shuai case shows barriers Chinese women face





BEIJING (AP) — The controversy surrounding Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai’s accusations of sexual assault against a former top politician continues to cast a shadow of the Beijing Winter Olympic Games in the runup to their official kickoff on Friday. Within China, however, her case has drawn little attention amid the crushing force of official censorship. Yet it points also to the barriers Chinese women face when raising such claims, both in the courts and within a male-dominated social and political culture that regards any dissent as a threat to the tightly-controlled, Communist Party-dominated system. While the #MeToo movement gained some initial traction when it launched in China in 2018, recent cases show those early hopes for a significant change in official attitudes may have been unrealistic.S. Korea expands rapid testing amid record COVID infections





SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — South Korea on Thursday began enforcing a new coronavirus testing policy centered on rapid testing as health officials reported a record number of new infections following the Lunar New Year holiday. The 22,907 new cases reported by the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency marked a second straight day of over 20,000 new infections and about a five-fold increase from daily cases seen in mid-January, when the highly contagious omicron variant first became the country’s dominant strain. Long lines snaked around testing stations in the capital Seoul and other major cities, where most people were provided rapid antigen test kits to use under the supervision of health workers, who then approved lab tests for anyone who tested positive.150,000 fans to be invited to events at Beijing Olympics





BEIJING (AP) — About 150,000 spectators are expected to be invited to attend events at the Beijing Olympics in two of the three clusters of venues, organizers said Thursday. Plans to sell tickets to international visitors were scrapped last year because of the coronavirus pandemic and the block was extended to residents of China in January. Venues in Beijing and Zhangjiakou are now set to have invited spectators but Alpine skiing and sliding sports in Yanqing will go ahead without fans. Invited spectators will be drawn from “international friends residing in China’s mainland, members of diplomatic missions and marketing partners,” organizers said in a presentation to the IOC.Digital warfare tech at sea helping US foes evade sanctions





MIAMI (AP) — Technology to hide a ship’s location previously available only to the world’s militaries is spreading fast through the global maritime industry as governments from Iran to Venezuela — and the rogue shipping companies they depend on to move their petroleum products — look for stealthier ways to circumvent U.S. sanctions. Windward, a maritime intelligence company whose data is used by the U.S. government to investigate sanctions violations, said that since January 2020 it has detected more than 200 vessels involved in over 350 incidents in which they appear to have electronically manipulated their GPS location. “This is out of hand right now,” Matan Peled, co-founder of Windward and a former Israeli naval officer, said in an interview.New Zealand to end quarantine stays and reopen its borders





WELLINGTON, New Zealand (AP) — New Zealand’s government on Thursday said it will end its quarantine requirements for incoming travelers and reopen its borders, a change welcomed by thousands of citizens abroad who have endured long waits to return home. Since the start of the pandemic, New Zealand has enacted some of the world’s strictest border controls. Most incoming travelers need to spend 10 days in a quarantine hotel room run by the military, a requirement that has created a bottleneck at the border. The measures were initially credited with saving thousands of lives and allowed New Zealand to eliminate or control several outbreaks of the coronavirus.Aussies say James Cook’s ship was found, US says not so fast





SYDNEY (AP) — Australian maritime experts said Thursday they believed they’ve found the wreck of one of the most important ships in the history of the South Pacific after it was scuttled in the U.S. more than 200 years ago. But archaeologists in the U.S. quickly countered by saying the findings were premature and a breach of contract in their joint research. For 22 years, maritime archaeologists have been investigating several ancient shipwrecks in a 2-square-mile area of Newport Harbor, Rhode Island. That’s where James Cook’s HMS Endeavour was believed to have been deliberately sunk by the British during the American Revolution.