HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) — Democratic Gov. Ned Lamont released a $24 billion state budget on Wednesday he says reflects Connecticut’s improving fiscal situation, thanks in part to a massive influx of federal coronavirus relief funds, strong tax receipts, budget reforms and improving COVID infection numbers.Despite the governor’s optimistic pitch to the General Assembly during his State of the State address, both Republicans and Democrats had their own objections to Lamont’s plan, which still needs to go through the legislative process over the next three months before becoming reality.Following are some highlights of Lamont’s budget proposal, which represents a 2.5% increase over last year’s budget and includes about $2.8 billion in federal COVID-relief funds.ADVERTISEMENTTAXESLamont’s plan calls for expanding eligibility of the state’s existing local property tax credit against personal income tax by eliminating the current requirement that recipients must be 65 and older or have dependents. Lamont’s plan also increases the credit from $200 to $300. Lamont also calls for accelerating a planned phase-in of pensions and annuities being exempted under the state’s income tax. The phase-in slotted for 2025 is now scheduled for this year.Coronavirus pandemicCan you get long COVID after an infection with omicron?New COVID surge batters Afghanistan's crumbling health careHospitals begin to limp out of the latest COVID-19 surge Under pressure to ease up, Biden weighs new virus responseThe governor also proposed capping local taxes on motor vehicles. The proposed change would lower the rate in 103 of the state’s 169 cities and towns. Municipalities will be reimbursed for the revenue loss by the state.MENTAL HEALTHThe governor’s budget includes nearly $160 million in additional funding for mental health services, including $26.4 million to expand access to mobile crisis units for adults and children. The plan also includes funding to establish children’s behavioral health urgent crisis centers and sub-acute crisis stabilization units, as well as a new 12-bed psychiatric unit at Connecticut Children’s Medical Center in Hartford.The additional funding comes amid a spike in demand for mental health services during the pandemic, especially for children.The budget also includes funding for various alternatives to in-patient psychiatric care, including for programs in the community. However, some advocates are concerned it’s not enough, given the demand for services coupled with staffing shortages.ADVERTISEMENT“We have seen an overwhelming surge in people seeking mental health services, including among Connecticut’s children. Without access to specialized treatment services — some of which have been shut down due to understaffing — people have nowhere to turn,” said Brian Williams, an addictions counselor at Connecticut Valley Hospital. He called Lamont’s plan “a start,” and urged him to immediately fill 1,700 open state health care positions and agree to fill another 1,500 potential vacancies due to impending retirements.Lamont’s budget includes additional funding for loan repayment and other tuition reimbursement programs to help address the health care worker shortage in Connecticut.EDUCATIONLamont said his plan includes about $400 million more in education funding, an amount that’s distributed to a wide range of programs. For example, there’s $90 million proposed to help schools pay for air quality improvements, a key issue during the pandemic. There’s also funding for more school choice slots, summer enrichment programs and incentives for high school seniors to fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid form before graduation.The budget also includes $65 million to help the Connecticut State Colleges and Universities system to boost enrollment through tuition assistance. Enrollment has dropped 16% since FY 2019 at the state universities and 22% at community colleges, due in part to the pandemic.OTHER INITIATIVESThe governor’s budget sets aside $42.25 million for one-time economic assistance payments in 2022 to individuals and households eligible for the state’s earned income tax credit. There’s also $27.5 million in federal COVID-relief funds to provide free admission to popular venues across the state, similar to last summer’s program. The Department of Transportation plans to make bus service free on weekends, from Memorial Day through Labor Day. There’s also funding for election security, including $150,000 for a security analyst who will monitor and combat election misinformation on a full-time basis. Another $2 million is set aside for a public information campaign on how to vote, including by absentee; and $4 million to upgrade the central voter registration system.