EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Leon Draisaitl scored twice and the Edmonton Oilers routed the Anaheim Ducks 7-3 on Thursday night to remain unbeaten under new head coach Jay Woodcroft.Woodcroft, who an the Oilers’ AHL team in Bakersfield, was moved up to Edmonton last week after Dave Tippet was let go.Evander Kane, Derek Ryan, Jesse Puljujarvi, Warren Foegele and Zach Hyman also scored for the Oilers, who are 9-1-2 in their last 12 outings and 4-0 under Woodcroft.“I think everybody’s engaged,” said Kane, who also had an assist. “I think everybody’s contributing. There was probably no better example in this four-game winning streak probably than tonight.”Mike Smith made 27 saves. Connor McDavid and Ryan McLeod each chipped in a pair of assists.Ryan, who also had a two-point night, said it feels as if the Oilers are playing as a more complete team than they were before.ADVERTISEMENT“I feel like we feel that everyone is getting a chance and an opportunity to provide help,” he said. “Obviously we can’t rely on Leon and Connor to do everything. We need support for those guys and for everyone in the top six. I think it has been good for myself to get some confidence built up to play more and to get more of an opportunity offensively.”HockeyLocked out MLB players reject offer of federal mediationSoFi Stadium ready to bring Hollywood opulence to Super BowlJuggling act: Rams O'Connell game planning and looking aheadBearcats, Bengals finally gave Cincy fans reason to cheerAdam Henrique, Sonny Milano and Trevor Zegras scored for the Ducks, who have lost four in a row. John Gibson allowed seven goals on 41 shots.“We were simply outmatched by a team,” said Ducks head coach Dallas Eakins. “We’re coming on a back-to-back and we were not prepared depth-wise to take on a team like that.”Anaheim took the lead with a power-play goal 4:39 into the opening period as Henrique tipped a p shot by Cam Fowler past Smith. It was the 32nd time in the last 39 games that Edmonton has allowed the game’s first goal.The Ducks got another power-play score with six minutes left in the first period, as a shot by Zegras was redirected into the net by Milano, his 11th.Edmonton got on the board with a power-play goal with 1:14 left in the first as Kane sent a wrist shot past Gibson for his fourth goal in nine games as a member of the Oilers.After a video review denied an Anaheim goal, the Oilers pulled even four minutes into the middle period as Ryan tipped a long shot by Cody Ceci into the net.Edmonton moved ahead 7:26 into the second period as Puljujarvi scored his 12th, flubbing a shot off his own skate and past Gibson. Puljujarvi was injured on the play and ended up leaving the game.The Oilers added another goal at about the midway mark of the second as a nice feed from McLeod allowed Draisaitl to tap home his 34th.Edmonton scored its fifth consecutive goal 4:21 into the third on a one-timer by Foegele.Anaheim got one back midway through the third when Zegras scored high over Smith.ADVERTISEMENTDraisaitl restored the three-goal lead, stripping a puck and then sending home his second of the game — his 12th multiple-goal game of the season.Just over a minute late, Hyman scored his 16th on a backhand.NOTES: Forward Ryan Nugent-Hopkins passed Wayne Gretzky in all-time games played for the Oilers, moving into ninth at 697. ... Out with injuries for the Ducks were Max Jones (upper body) and Josh Manson (finger)… Missing for the Oilers were Kris Russell (undisclosed), Zack Kassian (fractured jaw) and Duncan Keith (upper body).UP NEXTAnaheim: At Vancouver Canucks on Saturday.Edmonton: At Winnipeg Jets on Saturday.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports