WELLINGTON, New Zealand (AP) — Va’aiga Tuigamala, the barrel-chested All Blacks and Samoa winger known to his fans as “Inga the Winger”, has died. He was 52.His death was confirmed on Friday by New Zealand Rugby which described him as an “icon and inspiration,” saying he achieved things “on and the field others could only dream of.”A cause of death was not been announced but Tuigamala was recently diagnosed with type two diabetes and had spoken publicly about struggling with obesity and high blood pressure after suffering a stroke in 2007. He was about to release a video series in which he talks about his health concerns.In a trailer for the series, Tuigamala said “the reality was, I was facing an early graveyard. And when I say early grave, my father died at the age of 48 from a stroke. He wasn’t obese, but he had a stroke and died and left 15 children to my mum to look after.ADVERTISEMENT“I suppose for me, I just don’t want to be another statistic. ... The reality is, unfortunately I’ve been diagnosed with type two diabetes recently. I’m obese as you can see. High blood pressure, I had a stroke about nine years ago. I have really — in rugby terms — just dropped the ball.”EntertainmentSean Penn in Ukraine to continue work on documentaryNew Yorker teams with Celadon for book on Jan. 6 reportDeath certificates: Alicia Witt's parents died from the coldSlain cinematographer's husband angry Baldwin deflects blameTuigamala played 19 tests for New Zealand and has been described as the first of the blockbusting wingers who used his size to run through opponents, rather than pace to run around them.He also played 23 tests for Samoa. He later switched to rugby league and played more than 100 matches for English club Wigan, also representing Samoa in that code. He returned to rugby near the end of his career and his $1 million signing fee with England’s Newcastle Falcons was thought to be a world record figure at the time.Tuigamala was a fan favorite and popular teammate, known for his persistent smile and positive outlook.Tributes have been paid to Tuigamala by leading figures in both codes.The chairman of World Rugby, Bill Beaumont, said he was saddened to learn the tragic news of Tuigamala’s death.“He was a fine player, a true superstar,” Beaumont said. “My deepest condolences go to his family and friends at this difficult time.”Tuigamala’s teammate at the Wigan Warriors, the former England star Jason Robinson, said the deeply religious Tuigamala changed his life at a time he was considering suicide.“I owe so much to this amazing man,” Robinson tweeted. “Literally helped change my life when he came to Wigan Warriors from NZ. Sending all my love and condolences to the family at such a sad time.”___More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports