STANFORD, Calif. (AP) — Lexie Hull had 14 points and tied her season high with six steals, Cameron Brink added a double-double, and No. 2 Stanford pulled away in the second half to beat Colorado 63-46 on Sunday.The Cardinal (21-3, 12-0 Pac-12) trailed at halftime but outscored the Buffaloes 14-5 in the third quarter and got a big fourth from Haley Jones to remain unbeaten in conference play with two weeks left to play.Brink had 11 points and 11 rebounds for her ninth double-double this season and 12th of her career. Anna Wilson had 10 points, five rebounds and five assists. Jones scored eight of her 10 points in the fourth quarter including back-to-back layups that made it 52-41.Stanford, which ended Colorado’s 13-0 start this season with a 60-52 win in Boulder, never trailed after Hull’s 3-pointer early in the third. Hull added another 3 in the fourth that put the Cardinal ahead by 14.ADVERTISEMENTLesila Finau scored 11 points for Colorado (16-7, 5-7). Mya Hollingshed, the Buffaloes’ leading scorer who had 10 points, had a rough afternoon. She spent much of the first half on the bench with three fouls, picked up her fourth midway through the third then took a hard hit to the head early in the fourth.SportsSuper Bowl Live: Bengals faithful making themselves knownKeep it clean and the Lombardi Trophy could be yoursRansomware gang says it has hacked 49ers football teamColumn: Rams and Bengals put past aside in Super Bowl Colorado ended the first half on a 12-2 capped by Quay Miller’s layup that gave the Buffaloes a 30-29 lead.BIG PICTUREColorado: The Buffaloes remain winless in 13 games at Maples Pavilion. They had eight turnovers in the first quarter, shot 5 of 31 in the second half and were limited to 16 points after halftime. Stanford: Defense continues to be the strength of this team, and Stanford proved it again against a Colorado team that beat the Cardinal in overtime last season. Wilson again anchored the defensive effort but Hull and others played key roles as well.UP NEXTColorado: Plays at UCLA on Friday.Stanford: Plays at Oregon State on Friday.__More AP women’s college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/womens-college-basketball and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25