GLENDALE, Ariz. (AP) — Nick Schmaltz scored twice in the third period, Scott Wedgewood stopped 43 shots and the Arizona Coyotes beat the Vegas Golden Knights 3-1 Friday night.Shayne Gostisbehere also scored for the Coyotes, who had lost seven of the previous nine against Vegas.William Carrier scored and Laurent Brossoit made 30 saves for the Knights, who were playing for the first time in five days.Schmaltz tipped in Anton Strålman’s thigh-high shot from between the circles at 3:16 of the third period to put Arizona up 2-1 and Wedgewood made it stand up for his second victory in his third straight start. Schmaltz added an empty-netter with 31 seconds remaining.Wedgewood made sprawling save to rob Nicolas Roy with six minutes remaining, one of his 15 saves in the third period.Brossoit kept the game scoreless in the second period when he got his right pad on Antoine Roussel’s breakaway wrist shot five minutes into the period, both teams’ best scoring chance to that point.ADVERTISEMENTCarrier’s one-man effort gave the Knights a 1-0 lead at 11:03 of the second. Carrier brought the puck in from the left side and was stuffed by Wedgewood, but he regained control behind the net and moved into the left circle, scoring through traffic after a quick spin.NHLHurricanes have season-high 50 shots, beat Blue Jackets 4-0Landeskog scores 3 times, Avs rally for 6-3 win over JetsKyrou, Husso spark Blues to 5-3 victory over SabresDach gets tiebreaking goal as Blackhawks beat Devils 8-5Gostiisbehere tied it at 1-all with 5:44 left in the second on a slap shot from the left point that got over Brossoit’s blocker.Vegas’s Reilly Smith had a short-handed chance late in the second but his hard short went wide.NOTES: Coyotes F Nick Ritchie, playing his first game since being acquired from Toronto last Saturday, received an interference penalty on his first shift. Vegas did not score on the power play, finishing 0 for 2 on the night. ... Coyotes F Clayton Keller had a four-game goal streak stopped. Only four Arizona players had longer streaks since the franchise relocated in 1996-97. ... Play was stopped at 9:45 of the first period when Brossoit’s mask became dislodged and fell into the crease. ... Arizona’s last three games have been scoreless in the first period. ... Gostisbehere’s goal was his 250th career point.UP NEXTGolden Knights: Host Colorado on Saturday night.Coyotes: Host Winnipeg on Sunday.