MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) — Jusuf Nurkic had 32 points and eight rebounds, Anfernee Simons added 31 points and six assists and the Portland Trail Blazers overcame Ja Morant’s 44-point performance, beating the Memphis Grizzlies 123-119 on Wednesday night. Josh Hart added 22 points, six assists and seven rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who won their fourth straight after leading most of the game and weathering a frantic finish.Morant matched his career high in scoring as Memphis had its six-game winning streak halted. Desmond Bane scored 30 points and Brandon Clarke finished with 12.Memphis had trouble generating offense through the first half and into the third quarter. The Grizzlies used an offensive burst and closed within a possession, but Portland maintained the lead it held since the opening minutes.Memphis finally caught the Trail Blazers with just less than five minutes remaining in the fourth as Bane scored eight straight points.ADVERTISEMENTThe teams swapped the lead, with Nurkic keeping Portland in the game by scoring nine straight points. Simons followed with a 3-pointer from the right wing for a 122-117 lead with 44 seconds left, helping preserve the victory.Memphis GrizzliesBlazers overcome Morant's 44 points, beat Grizzlies 123-119T-wolves sign Beverley to 1-year, $13M contract extensionMemphis takes on Portland, seeks 5th straight home winSuns beat Clippers, adding on to their NBA-best 47-10 recordPortland, which is dealing with numerous injuries to Damian Lillard and forward Nassir Little, along with several trade-deadline acquisitions, are working with a pieced-together roster. In addition to the injuries, solid producers like Norman Powell, Robert Covington and CJ McCollum were sent elsewhere at the deadline.The Trail Blazers have played well during their winning streak, including a double-digit win over the Milwaukee Bucks on Monday. They continued that trend in the first half.Portland shot 60% until the late stages of the half, and Memphis seemed a step slower than it had during its recent winning streak. That translated into a 68-57 Portland lead at the break, despite Morant scoring 27 points.TIP-INSTrail Blazers: Simons has recorded at least 29 points in each of his last three games. …. The four-game winning streak matches the longest of the season for Portland. It won four straight from Nov. 15-23. … Portland captured the season series 3-1 over Memphis.Grizzlies: Morant, who missed Tuesday’s win at New Orleans with a sore ankle, returned to action and started. … Morant’s 20 first-quarter points marked a season-high for a Memphis player in a period. … Had scored at least 120 points during the six-game winning streak. … Memphis is now 24-3 when Clarke scores in double figures.UP NEXTTrail Blazers: Host Golden State on Feb. 24 after the All-Star break.Grizzlies: On All-Star break until Feb. 24 at Minnesota. ___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports