CONCORD, N.H. (AP) — In a speech cut short by a lawmaker’s illness, Republican Gov. Chris Sununu on Thursday called for new investments in housing, mental health care and veterans’ support that he said would build upon the successes of the last year.Sununu was close to finishing his state-of-the state address to the Legislature when Rep. Ralph Boehm, R-Litchfield, suffered a medical emergency. In consultation with House leadership, Sununu decided not to continue and instead released a transcript of his remarks. Officials said later that Boehm was expected to make a full recovery after a night in the hospital.Early in his speech, Sununu touted rankings that show New Hampshire as a regional leader in economic and population growth and as a national leader in freedom and public safety. Those come from smart management of tax dollars and the prioritization of individuals over government, he said.ADVERTISEMENT“Ranking after ranking shows that the Granite State is the place to be,” he said. “We are very proud that our life here in the 603 is simply the best of the best, but we did not get here by accident.”He highlighted successes including tax cuts, voucher-like grants families can use to send children to private schools and efforts to increase mental health services via the expansion of mobile crisis teams and the recent purchase of a psychiatric hospital for children.Coronavirus pandemicOttawa crackdown: police arrest 100 after 3-week protest'No-COVID' policy drags on Hong Kong economy as cases surgeSix African countries to receive mRNA vaccine technologyRepublican lawmakers bar journalists from statehouse floorsThe state has long struggled with both adults and children spending days or weeks in  emergency departments waiting for inpatient psychiatric beds, but Sununu said he will soon announce a historic public-private partnership that will provide an adequate number of crisis beds for the first time.“We may now become one of the most attractive places on the East Coast for mental health workers, for that workforce, for new programs and new ideas,” he said.Such an influx of workers, however, would encounter another of the state’s significant challenges: housing. To that end, Sununu proposed a $100 million fund that would include matching grants for multifamily housing projects, incentives for communities that move quickly with permitting, and money for demolishing vacant buildings. The fund would be paid for with federal American Rescue Plan money that Sununu once opposed.“These investments are critical. They’re absolutely critical in ensuring that New Hampshire continues to be the number one destination in New England,” he said. “Housing creates regional stability for our families and our businesses.”ADVERTISEMENTHousing support also is part of the $21 million partnership with Easter Seals the governor announced to create a Veterans Campus in Franklin. The goal, he said, is to integrate supportive, therapeutic and recreational services in one place.It was the first time Sununu had addressed the full Legislature in person since February 2020, just before the start of the coronavirus pandemic. Last year’s budget address was delivered online; Thursday’s event was held at a Manchester hotel expo center to allow the 424-member Legislature to spread out.“COVID’s been very tough, but New Hampshire has been very strong,” Sununu said.Sununu, who announced in November that he will seek a fourth term as governor rather than run for U.S. Senate, wound down his speech by urging lawmakers to reject the extremism displayed in Washington.“If you are here to get attention over the fight that frankly gets us nowhere, I don’t think any of us have any patience for that,” he said. “I have never and will never let our process and our opportunity be hijacked by radical elements on either side of the aisle.”Democrats, however, have argued that Sununu has ceded control to Republican extremists by signing a state budget that includes a prohibition on abortion after 24 weeks and provisions limiting classroom discussions of racism. They also pushed back on his attempt to cast the state as a model for its pandemic response given that the Republican-backed Executive Council and Republican lawmakers delayed funding for vaccine outreach.“Governor Sununu enabled conspiracy theorists within his party to delay millions in critical funding for COVID-19 relief while New Hampshire remains the least vaccinated state in New England by far,” House Democratic Leader Renny Cushing said in a statement. “The Sununu administration’s extremist attacks on free speech, personal freedoms and public education are devastating our state.”