SALT LAKE CITY (AP) — Utah will soon join the growing list of states transitioning away from treating the coronavirus pandemic as a public health crisis and instead shift to a policy focused on prevention, Gov. Spencer Cox announced FridayUtah will move to what Cox, a Republican, called a “steady state” model on March 31. In the new phase, Utah will close mass testing sites, report COVID-19 case counts on a more infrequent basis and advise residents to make personal choices to manage the risk of contracting the virus.“Now, let me be clear, this is not the end of COVID, but it is the end — or rather the beginning — of treating COVID as we do other seasonal respiratory viruses,” Cox said.As the omicron variant-fueled surge subsides and hospital capacity concerns diminish, politicians are signaling to their constituents that they plan to approach the pandemic as a part of everyday life, while acknowledging that surges and variants may arise in the future.ADVERTISEMENTUtah’s planned shift parallels actions planned in other states including California, where Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom  announced Thursday that the state would adopt an “endemic” approach to the coronavirus as part of an attempt to return to normalcy. Coronavirus pandemicOttawa crackdown: police arrest 100 after 3-week protest'No-COVID' policy drags on Hong Kong economy as cases surgeSix African countries to receive mRNA vaccine technologyRepublican lawmakers bar journalists from statehouse floorsBut unlike California, where masks and capacity caps have remained in effect in many areas, Utah’s transition will have less tangible impacts on residents and mainly pertain to how the state communicates information about the pandemic and its role in facilitating testing and vaccinations.“We started this phase a long time ago, in moving into a personal risk model and having people make those individual choices — whether they want to wear masks or whether they’re getting the vaccine — and hopefully they’re getting the vaccine. We’ve certainly made that transition before some other states,” Cox said.With widely available tools like at-home tests, antiviral pills and wastewater surveillance to find evidence of coronavirus, Cox and health officials are confident that Utah can keep case counts and hospitalizations at manageable levels and monitor for new variants and outbreaks.Cox said the popularity of at-home tests made positivity rates a less useful metric to gauge how prevalent the virus was in communities because most at-home results are not reported to state officials. In Utah, the positivity rate, as measured using a. seven-day average, was 27% on Feb. 11, the last time the state updated its data.Utah has reported 21,764 newly confirmed COVID-19 infection cases over the last two weeks, or 688 cases per 100,000 states residents, which ranks it 25th out of the 50 states. ADVERTISEMENTIn emergency rooms, 5% of patients were diagnosed with the virus on Feb. 15, as measured using a seven-day average. Deaths and hospitalizations have also fallen since a mid-January spike, according to state health department data.Utah Department of Health Executive Director Nate Checketts said under the steady state that Cox outlined, hospitals and healthcare providers would provide most COVID-19 tests, much like they do for influenza and other infections. Though Utah is reducing community-wide testing, the state health department plans to maintain levels for vulnerable communities and in settings like prisons and nursing homes.