When he was coach at Texas, Augie Garrido often would say the minimum expectation for the Longhorns was to reach the College World Series every year. And he was only half-joking.Those expectations extend well beyond the program’s passionate fan base this year. With almost all the pieces back from the 50-win team that fell one victory short of the CWS finals, the Longhorns are the consensus preseason No. 1 team. Anything short of a return trip to Omaha would be a surprise.“We accept it. We embrace it. We love it,” coach David Pierce said.The Longhorns have been looking toward 2022 since their walk-off loss to eventual national champion Mississippi State in the bracket final  last June. Texas had won three straight elimination games to put itself in position to go to the CWS finals for the first time since 2009.ADVERTISEMENTTexas brings back more elite talent than any other team, and it starts on the mound. Pete Hansen (9-1, 1.88 ERA) and Tristan Stevens (11-3, 3.31) are a formidable 1-2 punch with Tanner Witt (5-0, 3.16 ERA) moving from the bullpen to No. 3 starter. Aaron Nixon will be in his second year as closer.SportsValieva skates into first place after Olympic short programUnvaccinated Djokovic could skip French Open, WimbledonAt Skaggs trial, 4 MLB players testify they received drugsSimmons: Struggles in Philadelphia began before last seasonShortstop Trey Faltine partners again with second baseman Mitchell Daly to form one of the strongest middle infields in the country. Ivan Melendez, who led the team with a .319 batting average and 13 home runs, will go from designated hitter to first base. Skyler Messinger, a graduate transfer from Kansas, takes over at third.Eric Kennedy will play left field again, and Austin Todd will be back in right after being injured most of last season. Douglas Hodo III, who played right in Todd’s absence, slides over to center.Silas Ardoin returns at catcher after starting 50 games, throwing out 20 of 48 base stealers and not committing an error.The Longhorns open the season Friday with the first of three weekend games against Rice.Ten other teams to watch, with 2021 records, in alphabetical order:ARIZONA (48-15)New coach Chip Hale won a national title as a Wildcats player in 1986 and played, coached and managed in the majors. He will be in building mode in his first college job. Jacob Berry, Collegiate Baseball newspaper’s co-national freshman of the year, followed Jay Johnson to LSU. Five other players from last year’s CWS team left after being drafted. The Wildcats do bring back C Daniel Susac and weekend starters Gabe Irvin and Chandler Murphy.ARKANSAS (50-13)ADVERTISEMENTThe defending SEC regular-season and tournament champion Razorbacks lost Golden Spikes Award-winning pitcher Kevin Kopps and five everyday players. No drop-off is expected. 2B Robert Moore and SS Jalen Battles make the Hogs strong up the middle, 1B Peyton Stovall is the preseason SEC freshman of the year and much of the power from a team that hit a nation-high 109 homers is back. FLORIDA STATE (31-24)The Seminoles are the Atlantic Coast Conference favorites. Parker Messick, the 2021 ACC pitcher and freshman of the year, and Bryce Hubbart head the pitching staff. Three of the four infield spots will be occupied by transfers — 1B Alex Toral (Miami), 3B Brett Roberts (Tennessee Tech) and SS Jordan Carrion (Florida). FSU comes into the season with nation’s longest active streak of NCAA Tournament appearances (43).NORTH CAROLINA STATE (37-19)The Wolfpack were one win away from the CWS finals when the NCAA sent them home because of COVID-19 protocols. The Wolfpack have back five everyday players and top pitcher Sam Highfill and bring in 13 freshmen and eight transfers. The program has some mojo following the announcement of a $15 million facilities upgrade to begin after the season.LSU (38-25)Jay Johnson succeeds Paul Mainieri after leading Arizona to two CWS appearances in five years. He takes over a program with one of college baseball’s most ardent fan followings, and the 11 seasons since its most recent national title is the longest gap since the Tigers won their first in 1991. LSU’s roster includes nine experienced position players, including All-America Arizona transfer Jacob Berry, and 10 pitchers who recorded innings last season. MISSISSIPPI STATE (50-18)The defending national champion Bulldogs’ biggest hole is on the mound after they lost first-round draft pick and CWS Most Outstanding Player Will Bednar and two other pitchers who were drafted. Landon Sims, a potential high first-round draft pick, moves into the Friday night starter’s role. Logan Tanner hit a team-high 15 homers and is one of the best catchers in the country. Kellum Clark, who hit two big homers at CWS, moves from infield to right field.NEBRASKA (34-14)Will Bolt has the Cornhuskers on the rise entering his third season. They won the Big Ten regular-season title on the way to their first NCAA regional final since 2007. Nebraska had two pitchers drafted in first three rounds but signed one of the conference’s top recruits in P Drew Christo. 3B Max Anderson is back after being named Big Ten freshman of the year. OKLAHOMA STATE (36-19-1)The Cowboys have a load of young talent and one of the nation’s top starters in P Justin Campbell, who struck out 102 in 84 innings and threw the program’s third nine-inning no-hitter against Kansas. Miami transfer Victor Mederos is a starter with a high ceiling. 1B Griffin Doersching hit 20 homers for Northern Kentucky. STANFORD (39-17)The Cardinal made a surprise run through the super regional at Texas Tech to make it to the CWS for the first time since 2008. Many of the key pieces are back for the Pac-12 favorite, including projected first-round draft pick Brock Jones in center field. Stanford has an experienced catcher in Kody Huff to help with the development of a new-look pitching staff. Alex Williams moves into the Friday night role, and there are promising arms behind him.VANDERBILT (49-18)With the Kumar Rocker-Jack Leiter combo gone, the Commodores’ pitching situation is a bit more fluid. Nick Maldonado was a bullpen workhorse last season and entered the preseason as a candidate to be a weekend starter. Six everyday players are back, including SEC freshman of the year Enrique Bradfield Jr. The 2021 national runner-up will get tested right away hosting Oklahoma State in the country’s best season-opening series.___More college baseball coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/college-world-series