Reaction from social media and elsewhere after Tom Brady announced his retirement. Brady won seven Super Bowls and set numerous passing records in an unprecedented 22-year career. He made the announcement in a long post on Instagram. Brady has long stated his desire to spend more time with his wife, supermodel Gisele Bundchen, and three children despite still playing at the top of his game. The 44-year-old Brady goes out after leading the Tampa Bay Buccaneers to a Super Bowl title last season and NFC South championship this season.___“Tom Brady will be remembered as one of the greatest to ever play in the NFL. An incredible competitor and leader, his stellar career is remarkable for its longevity but also for the sustained excellence he displayed year after year. Tom made everyone around him better and always seemed to rise to the occasion in the biggest moments. His record five Super Bowl MVP awards and seven Super Bowl championships set a standard that players will chase for years. He inspired fans in New England, Tampa and around the world with one of the greatest careers in NFL history. It has been a privilege to watch him compete and have him in the NFL. We thank him for his many contributions to our game and wish Tom and his family all the best in the future.” — NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell.Tom BradyAP Top News at 1:49 p.m. ESTReaction to Tom Brady announcing his retirementTom Brady retires after 22 seasons, 7 Super Bowl titlesTom Brady says he's still evaluating his future plansADVERTISEMENT___“Tom joined us as the greatest football player of all time, and he quickly showed everyone in our organization what that meant. He set a standard and helped create a culture that took our team to the mountaintop. It has been an honor to be his head coach for the past two seasons.” — Tampa Bay Buccaneers coach Bruce Arians.___“It is hard to put into words what Tom has meant to me and the entire Buccaneers organization. I have had the distinct pleasure of being with Tom at both the beginning and end of his incredible NFL career. These past two seasons, I had the privilege to see up close the way he operates and the impact he has on a franchise — from coaches to players to staff. He set a standard for accountability, work ethic and performance that resonated through our building and in our locker room. His list of career accomplishments speaks for itself, but to finish a 22-year career while still performing at his peak, was nothing short of extraordinary.” — Tampa Bay Buccaneers general manager Jason Licht.___ADVERTISEMENT“Tom arrived in Tampa Bay with an unprecedented level of expectations and delivered some of the most memorable moments in our franchise history. His impact on our team and community was immediate and profound. Tom’s remarkable NFL journey has come to an end, but we will continue to celebrate his legendary career as the greatest quarterback of all time and are appreciative and grateful for the time he spent as a Buccaneer.” — The Glazer family, which owns the Buccaneers.___“Words cannot describe the feelings I have for Tom Brady, nor adequately express the gratitude my family, the New England Patriots and our fans have for Tom for all he did during his career. A generation of football fans have grown up knowing only an NFL in which Tom Brady dominated. He retires with nearly every NFL career passing record, yet the only one that ever mattered to him was the team’s win-loss record.” — New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft.___“Congratulations to my friend Tom on an unbelievable football career. To do it as long as he did, at the highest of levels is absolutely incredible. It was an honor & a privilege to compete against him on the field, and I truly appreciate his friendship off the field. I have always admired & respected his competitiveness, his dedication, his discipline. and his commitment to being the best.” — Hall of Fame quarterback Peyton Manning on Twitter. ___“The best QB of all time retired, DANG… he threw his last TD on me.” — Los Angeles Rams cornerback Jalen Ramsey on Twitter.___“Probably a sign I’m getting a little old, you think about generational talents and people that have retired and you go way back and it’s not that far way back but like the Joe Montana’s, and the Wayne Gretzky’s, and the Michael Jordan’s, and Magic Johnson, just the elite of the elite. Then you move, I think the next closest one, I don’t know off the top of my head, probably Derek Jeter just for longevity, winning, just staples in their sports that when you say their name, you just think excellence.” — Tampa Bay Lightning coach Jon Cooper.___More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/hub/nfl and https://apnews.com/hub/pro-32 and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL