WELSH, La. (AP) — Bars, lounges and liquor stores in a southwest Louisiana town of 3,300 will soon be able to open on Sundays.The Welsh Board of Aldermen voted 3 to 2 to allow such sales, starting at noon. However, no alcohol sales will be allowed between 2 a.m. and noon Sunday, The American Press reported.The change will go into effect 10 days after legal publication in the Jennings Daily News, according to town clerk Eva Kibodeaux.Restaurants, convenience stores and grocery stores may already sell beer, wine and liquor on Sunday, according to town attorney Rick Arceneaux.Aldermen Clint Hardy, Lawrence Mier and Andrea King voted for the measure. Aldermen Ronnie Hayes and Jackie Balmer cast the dissenting votes.Hardy proposed the change in December after a local resident asked about letting bars open on Sunday. Since then, he said, he has had “hundreds of conversations” on the subject with only two people saying it was better left alone.ADVERTISEMENTSince many people don’t work on Sunday, the day will be profitable and add to employment and taxes, he said.BusinessUS suspends Mexican avocado imports on eve of Super Bowl Port of Savannah reports record cargo volumes for January Young workers give unions new hopeBlockades on Canada-US border continue as protests swellBalmer said, “I am not against free commerce and I love this town and I want to see it grow.” But, she said, “If we open it up for bars to be open on Sunday where does that end?”Balmer said the current ordinance is outdated but more consideration is needed before making any changes.Although Balmer said many church people had told her they were worried by the proposal, no one spoke against the measure during the public hearing.The ordinance has required bars, lounges and liquor stores to close between 2 a.m. Sunday and 12:01 a.m. Monday. Hardy said shutting them down on Sunday hinders many businesses, giving away sales taxes to surrounding municipalities and forcing chain-type restaurants to locate elsewhere.“If we want Welsh to prosper we have to have growth,” Hardy said. “With growth comes new business and what’s everyone’s favorite thing to do, eat and sometimes drink.”Several people at the meeting also voiced concern for the town losing tax dollars to Jennings, Iowa and Lake Charles.“Why is it fair for other businesses to sell alcohol in town?” resident Roger Mallett asked. “At the end of the day you have to be fair across the board to everyone. If we are not going to sell alcohol in town, then we don’t sell alcohol in town, but I don’t see the fairness of saying who can and who can’t.”Robbie Vanicor, a food service contractor, said an extra day of work can make or break a business especially with the slowdowns caused by COVID-19 and increasing cost of products and labor.