___Companies revert to more normal operations as COVID wanesNEW YORK (AP) — For the first time in two years for many people, the American workplace is transforming into something that resembles pre-pandemic days. Tysons Foods said Tuesday it was ending mask requirements for its vaccinated workers in some facilities. Last week, Walmart and Amazon said they’ll no longer require fully vaccinated workers to don masks in stores or warehouses unless required under local or state laws. Meanwhile, tech companies like Microsoft and Facebook that had allowed employees to work fully remote are now setting mandatory dates to return to the office after lots of fits and starts. That’s a stark reversal from just weeks ago when the omicron variant of COVID-19 was peaking. But the U.S. has seen COVID-19 infections and hospitalizations plummet in recent weeks. ___Senate GOP delays votes on Raskin and 4 other Fed nomineesADVERTISEMENTWASHINGTON (AP) — Republican members of the Senate Banking Committee boycotted a vote on President Joe Biden’s five nominees to the Federal Reserve, delaying indefinitely the confirmation of Chair Jerome Powell to a second four-year term. Democrats control the committee, but because no Republican attended the session, votes couldn’t take place under Senate rules. The boycott by the Republican committee members focused on Sarah Bloom Raskin, a former Fed governor and deputy Treasury secretary whom Biden picked to be the Fed’s top banking regulator. Sen. Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania, the senior Republican on the committee, argued that Raskin had provided insufficient answers about her work as a board member for a fintech firm.Russia-UkraineUS hasn't verified Russian pullback of troops near UkraineBusiness Highlights: Transforming workplace, Fed nomineesUkraine-Russia crisis: What to know on hopes of averting warSenators issue bipartisan support for Ukraine, warn Russia___Pressure mounts on Congress to curb lawmaker stock tradingWASHINGTON (AP) — Pressure is building for Congress to pass legislation that would curtail lawmakers’ ability to speculate on the stock market. Public anger over congressional stock trading has mounted since the first tremors of the pandemic. That’s when lawmakers stirred outrage by collectively buying and selling millions of dollars worth of stock after receiving warnings of the coming disruption from the virus. Now, with much of the Democratic agenda stalled in a narrowly divided Congress, influential leaders in both parties have called for action following a steady stream of revelations about questionable trades by lawmakers.___Stocks gain ground, oil prices fall as Ukraine tensions easeADVERTISEMENTNEW YORK (AP) — Stocks ended broadly higher on Wall Street Tuesday as investors welcomed signs that tensions might ease in Ukraine. The S&P 500 rose 1.6%, the tech-heavy Nasdaq rose 2.5%. and U.S. benchmark crude slid 3.6%. Moscow said some troops near Ukraine’s borders would begin returning to their bases, however U.S. President Joe Biden said that claim remains unverified. Bond yields rose after another indicator on inflation came in higher than expected. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.05% after the government reported that inflation at the wholesale level surged 9.7% from a year earlier in January. ___Please hold: Pricey way to jump IRS phone line at tax timeWASHINGTON (AP) — At a time when calls to the IRS have reached record levels, a private company lets those who are willing to pay jump to the front of the line to get their phone calls answered. That has attracted the attention of lawmakers who want the IRS to investigate the company’s impact on the agency’s phone capacity. The service is expected to come up on Thursday when a Senate committee holds a hearing on IRS customer service problems. Critics see it as a pay-to-play arrangement that gives those who can afford it a way to get quick access to what should be a free government service equally available to all. ___A gun in your carry-on? Some are calling for stiffer finesWASHINGTON (AP) — There has been a surge in guns being discovered at airport checkpoints. That’s leading some security experts to suggest higher fines and even putting violators on a no-fly list to prevent guns from getting on planes. The Transportation Security Administration says airport screeners found 5,972 guns at checkpoints last year, easily breaking a record set in 2019 despite a drop in air travel, and 86% of those guns were loaded. A House transportation-security subcommittee held a hearing Tuesday at which New Jersey Democrat Bonnie Watson Coleman warned of the toxic combination of rising gun seizures and record numbers of disruptive passengers.___January wholesale inflation surged 9.7% from a year agoWASHINGTON (AP) — Wholesale inflation in the United States surged again last month, rising 9.7% from a year earlier in a sign that price pressures remain high at all levels of the economy. The Labor Department said Tuesday that its producer price index — which measures inflation before it reaches consumers — jumped 1% from December. Excluding volatile food and energy prices, wholesale inflation rose 0.8% from December and 8.3% from January 2021.Last week, the government reported that inflation at the consumer level soared over the past year at its highest rate in four decades, squeezing households, wiping out pay raises and reinforcing the Federal Reserve’s decision to begin raising borrowing rates. ___Airbnb posts $55 million 4Q profit, revenue above 2019SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Airbnb has reported its second-straight quarterly profit and it says its revenue is now higher than it was before the pandemic. Airbnb said Tuesday that it earned $55 million in the fourth quarter. That’s a turnaround from a loss of $3.9 billion a year ago. Airbnb says the omicron variant of COVID-19 had less effect on bookings and cancellations than last year’s delta variant. The San Francisco-based home-sharing company says summer bookings made by the end of January are 25% ahead of the same time in 2019, before the pandemic. It says bookings are surging in small and towns and rural areas, and average daily prices are rising. ___The S&P 500 gained 69.40 points, or 1.6%, to 4,471.07. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 422.67 points, or 1.2%, to 34,988.84. The Nasdaq jumped 348.84 points, or 2.5%, to 14,139.76. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies moved up 55.67 points, or 2.8%, to 2,076.46.