TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP) — Chinese authorities have detained six people and fired eight lower-level Communist Party officials in a provincial-level investigation of the case of a trafficked woman that caused national outrage and frustration. Just days before the Lunar New Year holiday, a video circulated of a woman who was chained to a small shed. The video, filmed by a blogger who was trying to solicit donations for poor rural families, immediately drew questions and concerns as the blogger said the woman was the mother of eight children. But when local officials responded with a series of inconsistent statements, the Chinese public only grew angrier, demanding accountability. Authorities on Wednesday confirmed the identity of the woman in the video, who became known as Little Plum Blossom. She was from a village in Yunnan, authorities said, and not Sichuan as some members of the public believed, and she had been trafficked multiple times. ADVERTISEMENTThe woman was born in 1977, and was first married in 1995. She divorced in 1997 and returned to Yagu village in Yunnan. A year later, a woman surnamed Sang brought her from her village in Yunnan all the way to coastal Jiangsu province, about 2,000 kilometers (1,200 miles) away, under the guise of getting medical treatment and finding a husband. But Sang then sold Little Plum Blossom to a man in Donghai county for 5000 yuan ($790). According to Jiangsu authorities, Sang and her husband had both been sentenced to jail in 2000 for trafficking girls — one for five years and the other for seven. Both were arrested by authorities on Tuesday. After just a few months with the man in Donghai county, Little Plum Blossom disappeared one morning. How she ended up in Feng county, where the video showing her chained up was shot, was the result of further trafficking, according to the report. A couple who ran a hotel in neighboring Henan province found the woman wandering as a beggar and had taken her in, according to the report. After a month, they sold her to a construction foreman who then sold her to a man in Feng county. This man in Feng county then sold her to the family that she would “marry into” and end up having eight children in. Investigators said this chain of events was still under examination. Authorities also addressed rumors about the marriage license, which was presented by a former investigative journalist on the social media platform Weibo.Many of the public raised concerns over the age discrepancy in the marriage license, which indicated the woman was in her 50s, though her appearance suggested otherwise. Authorities clarified it was due to the fact that the husband registered her with a different birthday, though it is unclear why. ADVERTISEMENTHer husband was detained by authorities earlier this month. On Thursday, the procuratorate in Feng County approved his formal arrest on charges of abuse.Police have also detained the first man Little Plum Blossom was sold to in Jiangsu in 1998, as well as those who later trafficked her to Feng county.Eight lower-level officials have been fired and three have been “deprived of freedom of movement” as part of an internal Party investigation, for various reasons including issuing false information and failing to protect the public’s rights. Six others have received internal punishments, such as demotion in rank.