A look at what’s happening in European soccer on Friday:ENGLANDThe fourth round of the FA Cup begins with Manchester United’s home match against second-tier Middlesbrough. United will be without forward Mason Greenwood, who has been suspended by the club. Greenwood was arrested on Sunday and questioned on suspicion of the rape and assault of a woman. He was released on bail on Wednesday. Jesse Lingard and Edinson Cavani have asked to miss the game  for personal reasons. United manager Ralf Rangnick has confirmed Paul Pogba is set to return from his three-month injury layoff. The France midfielder has been out since sustaining a thigh injury on international duty in November.SPAINThe last time Getafe played Levante, in mid-October, it marked the return of Quique Sánchez Flores, who started his third stint as the club’s coach. Before he took over, Getafe had lost seven times and only managed a single draw to start the season. Since then, the experienced coach has Getafe on a run of only three losses in 14 league matches. Still, the modest team from Madrid is only four points from Spain’s relegation zone. Levante would love to swap spots, however. Every match is practically a must-win for the Valencia-based club. It is in last place and nine points from safety after just one win in 21 tries this season.Mason GreenwoodLingard told to stay at Man U because of Greenwood absenceMATCHDAY: Man U starts FA Cup 4th round; Marseille eyes 2ndMan United player Mason Greenwood released on bailMan U’s Greenwood questioned on suspicion of threats to killADVERTISEMENTGERMANYThe Bundesliga returns after the international break with Hertha Berlin hosting promoted Bochum for what could be called a relegation battle. Hertha, which has failed to win any of its last four games, is just three points above the relegation zone yet can overtake Bochum in 11th place with a win. But Bochum has proven hard to beat on its return to the Bundesliga. Thomas Reis’ team drew with Cologne in its previous game and knocked Mainz out of the German Cup to reach the quarterfinals. Reis said Bochum’s 3-1 loss at home to Hertha earlier this season was the promoted team’s “most bitter” given its superiority in that game. If either of these teams are to be relegated at the end of the season, it looks more likely to be Hertha.FRANCEMarseille looks to bounce back from a loss to Lyon when it hosts mid-table Angers. Victory for Jorge Sampaoli’s team at Stade Velodrome would move it above Nice into second place by one point in the automatic Champions League slot. Sampaoli was annoyed at the way his team lost 2-1 at Lyon, conceding twice in the last 15 minutes. He’ll expect no easing up against Angers, which scores and concedes in equal amounts but is a hard squad to break down. With eight goals and eight assists, Dimitri Payet is the key player for Marseille. It’s a different story for imposing Poland striker Arkadiusz Milik. He scored nine league goals in just 15 games last season but spends most of the time these days on Sampaoli’s bench.___More AP soccer: https://apnews.com/hub/soccer and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports