Today in History Today is Saturday, Feb. 26, the 57th day of 2022. There are 308 days left in the year. Today’s Highlight in History: On Feb. 26, 1993, a truck bomb built by Islamic extremists exploded in the parking garage of the North Tower of New York’s World Trade Center, killing six people and injuring more than 1,000 others. (The bomb failed to topple the North Tower into the South Tower, as the terrorists had hoped; both structures were destroyed in the 9/11 attack eight years later.) On this date: In 1815, Napoleon Bonaparte escaped from exile on the Island of Elba and headed back to France in a bid to regain power. In 1904, the United States and Panama proclaimed a treaty under which the U.S. agreed to undertake efforts to build a ship canal across the Panama isthmus. In 1942, “How Green Was My Valley” won the Academy Award for Best Picture of 1941, beating out nine other films, including “The Maltese Falcon” and “Citizen Kane.” ADVERTISEMENTIn 1945, authorities ordered a midnight curfew at nightclubs, bars and other places of entertainment across the nation. In 1952, Prime Minister Winston Churchill announced that Britain had developed its own atomic bomb. Academy Awards'Power of the Dog' tops Oscar noms with 12; 'Dune' nabs 10Today in HistoryNew this week: Plenty of Dolly Parton and 'Lucy and Desi'Oscar-nominated 'MASH' actor Sally Kellerman dies at 84In 1966, South Korean troops sent to fight in the Vietnam War massacred at least 380 civilians in Go Dai hamlet.In 1987, the Tower Commission, which had probed the Iran-Contra affair, issued its report, which rebuked President Ronald Reagan for failing to control his national security staff.In 1998, a jury in Amarillo, Texas, rejected an $11 million lawsuit brought by Texas cattlemen who blamed Oprah Winfrey’s talk show for a price fall after a segment on food safety that included a discussion about mad cow disease.In 2005, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak ordered his country’s constitution changed to allow presidential challengers in an upcoming fall election.In 2014, Republican Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer vetoed a bill pushed by social conservatives that would have allowed people with sincerely held religious beliefs to refuse to serve gays. In 2016, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie stunned the Republican establishment by endorsing Donald Trump for president. In 2020, the World Health Organization reported that the number of new coronavirus cases outside China had exceeded the number of new infections in China for the first time. Ten years ago: Trayvon Martin, 17, was shot to death in Sanford, Florida, during an altercation with neighborhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman, who said he acted in self-defense. (Zimmerman was later acquitted of second-degree murder.) The black-and-white silent film “The Artist” won best picture at the Academy Awards, as well as best actor for its star, Jean Dujardin (zhahn doo-zhahr-DAN’); Meryl Streep won best actress for “The Iron Lady.” ADVERTISEMENTFive years ago: At the 89th Academy Awards, “Moonlight,” an LGBT coming of age drama, won three Oscars, including best picture of 2016 (in a startling gaffe, the musical “La La Land” was mistakenly announced as the best picture winner before the error was corrected). Joseph Wapner, the retired Los Angeles judge who presided over “The People’s Court” from 1981 to 1993, died at age 97. Kurt Busch won the Daytona 500, surviving a crash-filled season opener to win the race for the first time in 16 tries.One year ago: U.S. health advisers endorsed a one-dose COVID-19 vaccine from Johnson & Johnson. A newly declassified U.S. intelligence report concluded that Saudi Arabia’s crown prince likely approved the killing of U.S.-based journalist Jamal Khashoggi inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. Lady Gaga’s two French bulldogs, which had been stolen by thieves who shot and wounded their walker, were recovered unharmed; Los Angeles police said a woman brought the dogs to an LAPD station. (The woman would eventually be charged as one of two alleged accomplices to the three men accused of carrying out the attack.) Today’s Birthdays: Actor-director Bill Duke is 79. Singer Mitch Ryder is 77. Actor Marta Kristen (TV: “Lost in Space”) is 77. Rock musician Jonathan Cain (Journey) is 72. Singer Michael Bolton is 69. The president of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan (REH’-jehp TY’-ihp UR’-doh-wahn), is 68. Actor Greg Germann is 64. Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va., is 64. Bandleader John McDaniel is 61. Actor-martial artist Mark Dacascos is 58. Actor Jennifer Grant is 56. Rock musician Tim Commerford (Audioslave) is 54. Singer Erykah Badu (EHR’-ih-kah bah-DOO’) is 51. Actor Maz Jobrani (TV: “Superior Donuts”) is 50. R&B singer Rico Wade (Society of Soul) is 50. Olympic gold medal swimmer Jenny Thompson is 49. R&B singer Kyle Norman (Jagged Edge) is 47. Actor Greg Rikaart is 45. Rock musician Chris Culos (O.A.R.) is 43. R&B singer Corinne Bailey Rae is 43. Pop singer Nate Ruess (roos) (fun.) is 40. Former tennis player Li Na is 40. Latin singer Natalia Lafourcade is 38. Actor Teresa Palmer is 36.