MONTREAL (AP) — Cole Caufield forced overtime with 8.7 seconds left in regulation and then scored the winner in overtime to help the Montreal Canadiens snap a 10-game skid with a 3-2 victory over the St. Louis Blues on Thursday night.Paul Byron also scored and Samuel Montembeault stopped 26 shots for the Canadiens, whose last win came on Jan. 18 at Dallas. The victory was the first for interim coach Martin St. Louis, who was 0-3-0 since taking over for the fired Dominique Ducharme.Robert Thomas and Pavel Buchnevich scored for the Blues, and Ville Husso made 27 saves.With 1:19 to go and the game tied at 1, Buchnevich powered his way to what looked to be the winning goal with a slap shot from the right faceoff circle.But Caufield forced overtime on a one-timer with less than nine seconds remaining. The rookie wasn’t done there, giving Montreal the win off another one-timer.ADVERTISEMENTCAPITALS 5, FLYERS 3PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Garnet Hathaway scored two goals in a span of less than two minutes late in the third period and Washington Capitals rallied late to defeat Philadelphia.Joe Snively, Michal Kempny and John Carlson also scored for the Capitals, who won their fifth in a row on the road to improve to 16-5-4 away from Washington.HockeyLocked out MLB players reject offer of federal mediationSoFi Stadium ready to bring Hollywood opulence to Super BowlJuggling act: Rams O'Connell game planning and looking aheadBearcats, Bengals finally gave Cincy fans reason to cheerGerry Mayhew scored a pair of goals and Travis Sanheim had a goal and an assist for Philadelphia, which has lost four in a row. Mayhew’s second of the game put Philadelphia in front 3-2 with 3:51 left in the third before the Capitals staged their furious comeback.Hathaway tied it at 3 just 54 seconds after Mayhew’s goal when his deflection from the slot of Carlson’s long-range shot got past Flyers goalie Martin Jones. Hathaway then gave Washington a 4-3 lead with 1:12 left in the third — 1:45 after his first goal.ISLANDERS 4, BRUINS 1NEW YORK (AP) — Noah Dobson and Mathew Barzal each scored and had an assist, helping the Islanders snap a three-game skid. Ilya Sorokin made 26 saves, Jean-Gabriel Pageau also scored, and the Islanders kicked off a two-game homestand with a victory after a disappointing four-game road trip (1-3-0). Brock Nelson also added an empty-net goal and an assist.Taylor Hall scored the Bruins’ lone goal and Linus Ullmark made 25 saves, but Boston fell for the fourth time in five games (1-3-1). Boston captain Patrice Bergeron returned to the lineup after missing three games with a head injury. RED WINGS 3, RANGERS 2, SONEW YORK (AP) — Pius Suter scored the winner in the sixth round of the shootout, and Thomas Greiss made 37 saves as Detroit beat New York.Detroit’s Lucas Raymond and the Rangers Mika Zibanjead each scored in the first round of the shootout, and each team missed its next four chances. Suter beat Igor Shesterkin and Rangers forward Filip Chytil failed to convert.Troy Stecher and Dylan Larkin scored for Detroit, which won for the fourth time in six games.ADVERTISEMENTK’Andre Miller and Mika Zibanejad scored in regulation for the Rangers, who are 16-4-3 at home and had their three-game winning streak halted. Shesterkin made 31 saves.MAPLE LEAFS 4, PENGUINS 1TORONTO (AP) — Morgan Rielly and Auston Matthews each had a goal and an assist, and Jack Campbell made 45 saves to lead Toronto past Pittsburgh.David Kampf and Michael Bunting also scored for Toronto, which was outshot 46-29 but won its second straight.Evgeni Malkin scored for Pittsburgh. Tristan Jarry had 25 saves.Matthews ran face-first into the crossbar of the Maple Leafs net as he pursued Penguins captain Sidney Crosby with 13:19 remaining in the third period. Doubled over and holding his face, Matthews left the game but returned with five minutes left. Moments before his mishap, he set up Bunting for Toronto’s fourth goal, less than three minutes after Malkin scored on a rebound to break up Campbell’s shutout bid.SENATORS 3, SABRES 1BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) — Austin Watson scored the tiebreaker in the third period and Zach Sanford and Brady Tkachuk added goals for Ottawa.Nick Holden had two assists and Anton Forsberg made 22 saves as the Senators improved to 5-2-1 in their last seven road games and 5-5-0 in their last 10 overall.Kyle Okposo scored for the Sabres. Craig Anderson stopped 25 of 27 shots against his former team. Buffalo had won two in a row and had earned a point in three straight.Watson deflected Holden’s slap shot past Anderson for the go-ahead goal with 9:09 remaining in the third period, breaking an 18-game scoreless streak.BLUE JACKETS 7, BLACKHAWKS 4CHICAGO (AP) — Red-hot Patrik Laine scored three goals to lead Columbus past Chicago.Boone Jenner, Yegor Chinakhov and Max Domi each had a goal and assist for Columbus, which has won three of four to move above .500 at 24-23-1. Oliver Bjorkstrand also scored in the finale of a five-game road trip.Laine’s first hat trick with Columbus extended his points streak to eight games, matching the second-longest of his career. The fleet Finnish forward has 10 goals and six assists in the span, and 16 goals on the season.Elvis Merzlikins made 28 saves for the Blue Jackets, who are 6-2-0 in their last eight.Philipp Kurashev and Ryan Carpenter each had goal and an assist for the Blackhawks, Alex DeBrincat notched his team-leading 29th goal and MacKenzie Entwistle also scored. Arvid Soderblom made 30 saves in his second NHL start and third appearance. JETS 5, KRAKEN 3WINNIPEG, Manitoba (AP) — Josh Morrissey scored the tiebreaking goal with 6:10 left in the third period for Winnipeg.Dominic Toninato, Pierre-Luc Dubois and Blake Wheeler also scored for the Jets. Kyle Connor, who assisted on Morrissey’s goal, added an empty-net goal at the buzzer. Eric Comrie stopped 20-and Dylan DeMelo had two assists.Vince Dunn, Marcus Johansson and Jordan Eberle scored for Seattle. Philip Grubauer made 24 saves.Morrissey converted a perfect pass from Connor and beat Grubauer cleanly for the winner. Kristian Reichel also assisted.OILERS 7, DUCKS 3EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Leon Draisaitl scored twice and Edmonton routed Anaheim to remain unbeaten under new head coach Jay Woodcroft.Evander Kane, Derek Ryan, Jesse Puljujarvi, Warren Foegele and Zach Hyman also scored for the Oilers, who are 9-1-2 in their last 12 outings and 4-0 under Woodcroft.Mike Smith made 27 saves. Connor McDavid and Ryan McLeod each added a pair of assists.Adam Henrique, Sonny Milano and Trevor Zegras scored for the Ducks, who have lost four in a row. John Gibson allowed seven goals on 41 shots.CANUCKS 5, SHARKS 4, OTSAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) — J.T. Miller scored with 2:21 remaining in overtime after Vancouver allowed a tying goal in the final second of regulation.Vancouver appeared set to win it in regulation when Conor Garland scored with 5:37 remaining and then the Canucks cleared the puck out of their own zone with less than 10 seconds to go. But the Sharks made one last rush and Alexander Barabanov tied it with 0.6 seconds remaining, forcing Vancouver into overtime.Miller then ended it when he beat James Reimer from the top circle on a delayed penalty to give the Canucks their third win in four games.Brock Boeser, Quinn Hughes and Vasily Podkolzin also for Vancouver. Thatcher Demko made 24 saves.Timo Meier had two power-play goals and Logan Couture also scored, but it wasn’t to prevent San Jose’s winless streak to stretch to five games. Reimer made 22 saves.—More AP NHL coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports