CONCORD, N.H. (AP) — The New Hampshire House gave preliminary approval Thursday to adding exceptions to the state’s new abortion ban and limiting the ultrasound mandate it includes.As of Jan. 1, New Hampshire prohibits abortion after 24 weeks of gestation, with exceptions only for pregnancies that threaten the mother’s life or health. Doctors who provide late-term abortions can face felony charges and ultrasounds are required before any abortion.The bill sent to the Finance Committee on Thursday would add exceptions for pregnancies resulting from rape or incest, or in cases of fatal fetal anomalies, and it would require ultrasounds only after 24 weeks. It has the support of Gov. Chris Sununu, but faces an uphill fight in the Senate, which has already rejected a similar measure.ADVERTISEMENTThe 179-174 vote in the House came as a surprise given that another House committee had recommended an amendment that only clarified the ultrasound requirement.Rep. Mark Pearson, R-Hampstead, argued the new law should be given time to play out before changes are considered. He also said many other states have similar laws and noted that some, unlike New Hampshire, require women view the ultrasound results.AbortionNew Hampshire House gives initial OK to abortion ban changesGOP-controlled Arizona Senate passes 15-week abortion banOklahoma abortion providers see huge influx of Texas womenMany faith leaders wary of religious exemptions for vaccine“Our own modest law does nothing of the kind,” he said.He and other opponents said rape and incest victims are likely to seek abortions well before 24 weeks and that diagnoses of fatal fetal anomalies can be wrong. The bill’s supporters countered that decisions made after such a diagnosis or after rape and incest are among the most deeply painful and difficult women are likely to experience.“I want to preserve the rights of conscience of every person in this state faced with those decisions to the maximum extent possible,” said Rep. Lucy Weber, D-Walpole.With the U.S. Supreme Court considering a case that could severely erode abortion rights, state legislatures across the country are taking up measures to further restrict the procedure or ensure access to it. New Hampshire lawmakers are considering at least eight bills on both sides of the issue.