1 of 3Edmonton Oilers center Derek Ryan (10) celebrates his third goal of the day with defenseman Darnell Nurse, center, and left wing Evander Kane (91) during the second period of an NHL hockey game against the Florida Panthers, Saturday, Feb. 26, 2022, in Sunrise, Fla. (AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee)1 of 3Edmonton Oilers center Derek Ryan (10) celebrates his third goal of the day with defenseman Darnell Nurse, center, and left wing Evander Kane (91) during the second period of an NHL hockey game against the Florida Panthers, Saturday, Feb. 26, 2022, in Sunrise, Fla. (AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee)SUNRISE, Fla. (AP) — Derek Ryan got his first NHL hat trick as the Edmonton Oilers snapped their two-game losing streak, beating the Florida Panthers 4-3 on Saturday. After goalie Mikko Koskinen denied Mason Marchment’s shot on a 3-on-1 break near the end of the second period, Ryan tapped in a pass from Evander Kane for the hat trick and a 4-2 lead.Leon Draisaitl netted his team-leading 36th goal, and Connor McDavid had two assists for Edmonton, which is 6-2 under new coach Jay Woodcroft. Koskinen made 44 saves, including a key point-blank stop of Carter Verhaeghe on a breakaway midway through the third period, and a glove save on Aleksander Barkov with 4:22 remaining.Barkov scored twice, Anton Lundell produced a goal, and Anthony Duclair had two assists for the Panthers, who have lost three consecutive games for the second time this season. Sergei Bobrovsky stopped 18 shots.FLYERS 2, CAPITALS 1PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Cam Atkinson had a goal and an assist and Claude Giroux also scored to lead Philadelphia. Carter Hart made 27 saves for the Flyers, who snapped a six-game losing streak and won for just the third time in 22 games.ADVERTISEMENTNHLDerek Ryan's first NHL hat trick lifts Oilers past PanthersRyan's first career hat trick leads Oilers over Florida, 4-3Atkinson, Giroux help Flyers top Capitals to snap skidBrown, Tatum lead Celtics to revenge win over PistonsT.J. Oshie scored for the Capitals, who lost their second straight.Giroux tied Hall of Famer Eric Lindros for eighth place on the Flyers’ all-time scoring list with the 290th goal of his career just 11 seconds into the game to put Philadelphia up early. Atkinson outraced Martin Fehervary to the puck in the Philadelphia zone, then fed Giroux for a wrist shot from the slot that beat Ilya Samsonov on the blocker side for his 17th of the season.The goal was tied for the third-fastest in a regular-season game in club history, equaling Bobby Clarke’s 11-second tally to open a contest on Jan. 27, 1983. Tim Kerr holds the Flyers record, scoring in eight seconds on March 7, 1989.Philadelphia increased its advantage to 2-0 with 1:22 left in the period when Atkinson netted his team-leading 18th of the season with a stellar individual effort from the side of the net to corral Scott Laughton’s pass with his skates, find his stick and then shoot off Samsonov and high into the net.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports