Audible best-sellers for the week ending January 28: Nonfiction 1. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)2. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 3. Red-Handed by Peter Schweizer, narrated by Charles Constant (HarperAudio)4. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 5. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) 6. Unf--k Your Brain by Faith G. Harper, PhD LPC-S ACS ACN, narrated by the author (Blackstone Audio, Inc.)7. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)8. How to Be Perfect by Michael Schur, narrated by the author, Kristen Bell, D’Arcy Carden, Ted Danson, William Jackson Harper, Manny Jacinto, Marc Evan Jackson, Jameela Jamil and Todd May (Simon & Schuster Audio)ADVERTISEMENT9. The Art of War by Sun Tzu, narrated by Aidan Gillen (Audible Studios)10. Mastering the Skill of Reinvention by Coach Pamela Mitchell, narrated by the author (Audible Originals)FictionEntertainmentABC suspends Whoopi Goldberg over Holocaust race remarksLife in chapters in 'The Worst Person in the World'Review: Michael Jackson musical is some thriller, lots badJanet Jackson doc, despite criticism, a hit for Lifetime1. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)2. Quicksilver by Dean Koontz, narrated by Todd Haberkorn (Brilliance Audio)3. American Girl by Wendy Walker, performed by Paige Layle, Carson Beck, Josh Hurley, Alexander Cendese, Carly Robins, Hillary Huber and Molly Secours (Audible Originals) 4. The Widow by K. L. Slater, performed by Lucy Price-Lewis (Audible Studios)5. A Farewell to Charms by Molly Harper, performed by Jonathan Davis and Amanda Ronconi (Audible Originals)6. Project Hail Mary by Andy Weir, performed by Ray Porter (Audible Studios)7. Winter Garden by Kristin Hannah, narrated by Susan Ericksen (Brilliance Audio)8. Norse Mythology by Neil Gaiman, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)9. Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone, Book 1 by J.K. Rowling, narrated by Jim Dale (Pottermore Publishing)10. The Maid by Nita Prose, narrated by Lauren Ambrose (Random House Audio)