GREEN BAY, Wis. (AP) — Tom Clements is back for a second stint as Green Bay Packers quarterbacks coach, a move that could reunite him with four-time MVP Aaron Rodgers.Clements, 68, previously worked for the Packers from 2006-16 in roles that included quarterbacks coach (2006-11), offensive coordinator (2012-14) and associate head coach/offense (2015-16). Packers coach Matt LaFleur announced Clements’ return on Friday.When the Packers won their last Super Bowl title in 2010 and Rodgers earned his first MVP award the following year, Clements was quarterbacks coach. Clements was offensive coordinator when Rodgers won his second MVP in 2014.Rodgers, who hasn’t announced whether he plans to return to the Packers for an 18th season, praised Clements on a number of occasions this past season. The most recent example came in the days leading up to the Packers’ NFC divisional playoff loss to the San Francisco 49ers, when Rodgers discussed his own leadership approach.ADVERTISEMENT“That’s the beauty in leadership,” Rodgers said at the time. “You have to understand how to push the right buttons on guys to get them to respond in the right way. I’m proud of my ability to listen and grow. I’m thankful, deeply thankful, to guys like (former Packers offensive coordinator) Joe Philbin and Tom Clements and (former Packers quarterbacks coach) Alex Van Pelt, who’ve helped me understand that facet of leadership and being a quarterback.”Green Bay PackersClements returning for second stint as Packers QBs coachSuccess for Vikings' O'Connell starts with player connectionPackers QB Aaron Rodgers earns 4th MVP award, 2nd in a rowThe Latest: Packers QB Aaron Rodgers wins 4th MVP awardThe 38-year-old Rodgers has said he would try to decide on his future before the free agency period begins next month. Rodgers hasn’t ruled out retiring, returning to the Packers or requesting a trade.Clements replaces Luke Getsy, who had been Green Bay’s quarterbacks coach and passing game coordinator before getting hired as the Chicago Bears’ offensive coordinator. Jason Vrable, the Packers’ wide receivers coach, has added the title of passing game coordinator.After being out of football from 2017-18, Clements returned to become the Arizona Cardinals’ passing game coordinator and quarterbacks coach in 2019. He announced his retirement at the end of the 2020 season.Clements previously worked as an offensive coordinator with the Buffalo Bills (2004-05) and as a quarterbacks coach for the New Orleans Saints (1997-99), Kansas City Chiefs (2000) and Pittsburgh Steelers (2001-03).The hiring of Clements continues the reconstruction of LaFleur’s offensive staff.ADVERTISEMENTNathaniel Hackett, who spent the last three seasons as Green Bay’s offensive coordinator,  left to become Denver Broncos head coach.  Hackett hired former Packers tight ends coach Justin Outten  as his offensive coordinator.LaFleur promoted offensive line coach Matt Stenavich  to replace Hackett as offensive coordinator. The new offensive line coach is Luke Butkus, who had been an assistant offensive line coach the last three seasons. John Dunn  was promoted from senior analyst to tight ends coach.___More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/hub/nfl and https://apnews.com/hub/pro-32 and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL