INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) — The Cincinnati Bengals got their two biggest plays before everybody got back into their seats after the Super Bowl 56 halftime show. Blink. Joe Burrow found Tee Higgins for a 75-yard touchdown on the Bengals’ first play of the third quarter.Following an extra point and a kick return, blink again. Bengals cornerback Chidobe Awuzie grabbed a ball that bounced off Rams wide receiver Ben Skowronek for Cincinnati’s second interception of the game to set up rookie Evan McPherson’s second field goal of the game.All in the span of 22 seconds.Then little else Sunday, and now the Bengals go back to Cincinnati from their first Super Bowl since the 1988 season still looking for their first championship after a 23-20 loss to the Los Angeles Rams. Burrow moved to his right and then up before throwing deep to Higgins, who grabbed Rams cornerback Jalen Ramsey’s face mask and pushed off to create separation for the catch. Higgins then ran to the end zone to finish off the 75-yard TD for a 17-13 lead at 14:48.ADVERTISEMENTTen seconds later, Awuzie grabbed the ball that bounced off Skowroneck. But the Bengals had to settle for a second field goal. Super BowlSuper Bowl Live: Kupp named Super Bowl MVP after winning TDKupp caps triple crown season with Super Bowl MVPSuper Bowl ads go heavy on nostalgia and star powerSuper Bowl: 50 Cent hangs upside down, Eminem takes a kneeAfter that, Burrow had plenty of chances along with Offensive Rookie of the Year Ja’Marr Chase to pad what was a 20-13 lead. But the Bengals punted four times with two three-and-outs, and Cincinnati gave up five sacks in the third quarter alone.The Bengals had 1:25 left and two timeouts remaining with a chance to at least force overtime with McPherson, who tied Adam Vinatieri’s NFL postseason record with his 14th field goal in these playoffs. Burrow got the Bengals to midfield with a quick pass to Chase, then another to Tyler Boyd. Then Burrow, the quarterback who came in 7-0 in playoff games in college and the NFL combined, threw the ball away on second-and-1. A run by Samaje Perine got nothing, then Burrow tried to escape Aaron Donald with a pass that fell harmlessly to the turf at SoFi stadium to start the Rams’ celebration.___More AP Super Bowl coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/super-bowl and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL