AHMEDABAD, India (AP) — India celebrated its 1,000th one-day international with a crushing six-wicket win over West Indies with 22 overs to spare on Sunday.Rohit Sharma scored 60 in his first outing as India’s full-time ODI captain. His side easily chased down West Indies’ total of 176 in 43.5 overs in the first one-day international. India finished on 178-4 in only 28 overs — with 132 balls remaining — to take a 1-0 lead in the three-match series. “Losing with 22 overs to spare is a heavy defeat,” West Indies captain Kieron Pollard said. “It was the same old (story) for us, not being able to bat 50 overs ... We’ve got to dig deep and get better in terms of technique, myself included.” India became the first team to achieve the 1,000 mark with its first ODI against England in 1974 at Headingley. ADVERTISEMENTThe historic game marked the beginning of a new chapter for India as Sharma takes over from Virat Kohli as captain in the white-ball formats. Yuzvendra Chahal took 4-49 and Washington Sundar 3-30 after India won the toss and opted to bowl. At 45-3 in 12 overs, the visitors never really got going. Mohammed Siraj (1-26) provided the initial breakthrough by removing Shai Hope (8) early. Sundar sent back Brandon King (13) and Darren Bravo (18) with West Indies struggling for partnerships as India pressed home its advantage.Chahal struck a triple blow in the middle overs as West Indies was reduced to 78-6 in 21.5 overs. Nicholas Pooran (18) was trapped leg before wicket, while Pollard (0) didn’t even trouble the scorers. Chahal took his third wicket in nine balls as Shamarh Brooks (12) was caught behind.The leg spinner was named man of the match for his spell.“I knew pressure was on them and my job was to sustain that pressure,” Chahal said. “I looked for variations in pace and when the ball turned, I kept doing it.” Jason Holder (57) scored an anchoring half-century as West Indies escaped embarrassment. He added 78 runs for the eighth wicket with Fabian Allen (29).In reply, India was never in bother.Openers Sharma and Ishan Kishan (28) put on 84 runs off only 79 balls. Sharma hit 10 fours and a six in his 51-ball innings, scoring his 44th ODI half-century.Alzarri Joseph (2-45) dismissed Kohli (8), who had played uncharacteristic shots to four successive short balls and was caught at fine leg.Rishabh Pant (11) was run out after Kishan threw away his start and holed out. India was at 116-4 in 17.3 overs.Suryakumar Yadav (34 not out) and debutant Deepak Hooda (26 not out) avoided any further hiccups with a calm 62-run partnership.India had been set back with four players missing due to COVID-19. Shikhar Dhawan, Shreyas Iyer, Ruturaj Gaikwad and Navdeep Saini returned positive tests on Wednesday and were ruled out of the series. West Indies was coming off a 3-2 win against England in a five-match T20 series at home. It’s looking to continue its white-ball transformation under Pollard. SportsMen's downhill at Olympics postponed a day because of windSadowski Synnott is 1st Kiwi Winter Olympics gold medalistOlympics Live: Germany's Ludwig wins men's luge gold medalUS women tune up for Canada with 8-0 rout of SwitzerlandAll three matches will be played in a secure bubble at the Narendra Modi Stadium in Ahmedabad, followed by three Twenty20s in Kolkata under similar restrictions. There will be no crowds attending the ODI series.The second ODI will be played at the same venue on Wednesday.___More AP cricket: https://apnews.com/hub/cricket and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports