SANTA FE, N.M. (AP) — A budget that would give a $1 billion boost to New Mexico’s spending on health care for the poor, teacher salaries, environmental regulation and policing arrived on the state House floor for debate Thursday.Lead House budget negotiator and Democratic Rep. Patricia Lundstrom of Gallup said the proposal uses a surge in state government income to improve education, bolster public safety and spur economic growth in a state with the highest rate of childhood poverty in the American West.“With the needs that we have in this state, people want the money out; they want that money working for them,” Lundstrom said.In all, the bill calls for general fund spending of $8.47 billion for the fiscal year starting on July 1 — a nearly 14% increase from current annual spending of $7.45 billion.That still should leave the state with an unspent general fund balance of $2.6 billion — equal to 30% of annual spending obligations.ADVERTISEMENT“We believe this will lead to transformative conditions,” Lundstrom said.House Republicans emphasized their support for companion tax cuts, forcing a failed vote on whether to fast-track a bill to eliminate taxes on Social Security income. Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham is backing that and other tax cuts during a 30-day legislative session that ends on Feb. 17.HealthA different COVID-19 vaccine debate: Do we need new ones?Tribes: Settlement in opioids case will bolster healingHow to prevent early birth? Study explores sugarless gumStudy identifies virulent HIV variant unrecognized for yearsHouse Democrats touted unprecedented investments in education, including funding teacher raises, as part of a proposed $3.87 billion K-12 budget, with a 12% spending increase.“That is a historic investment in New Mexico children,” said Democratic Rep. Candie Sweetser of Deming. “We are investing in those teachers and it really does matter.”Education spending includes incentives for public schools to extend annual classroom learning hours and calendar days to improve student academic performance.More than $40 million is dedicated to culturally appropriate teaching materials that cater to Native American children and non-English speaking households, as lawmakers respond to court rulings that show a failure to provide adequate educational opportunities to low-income, minority and disabled students.An increase of more than a quarter-billion dollars in spending is aimed at shoring up the state’s Medicaid program and other benefits for poor people, including emergency food and temporary cash benefits.New spending is aimed at bolstering permanent nursing staffs at hospitals that rely on traveling nurses and extending pregnancy-related Medicaid coverage to mothers for a year after births, up from two months.State and federal spending that flows through the state Human Services Department would increase to $9.2 billion dollars, mostly for Medicaid.Salaries would increase by at least 7% for public employees in state government and public education. Minimum salaries for teachers and principals, at various career stages, would rise to between $50,000 and $70,000.ADVERTISEMENTEven larger pay hikes are slated for state police. And new taxpayer contributions are proposed for public-school pensions and health care plans for state employees.Other provisions would create a new climate change bureau to oversee efforts to reduce greenhouse-gas emission. The plan puts $9 million into grants to prevent violence, amid a record setting spate of homicides in Albuquerque.Separately in the Senate, legislators grappled Thursday with election-year initiatives to shore up voting security and rein in climate pollution.Legislators clashed on the Senate floor over a Democrat-sponsored bill to reduce pollution from the transportation sector by establishing a low-carbon fuel standard.The proposed clean-fuel standard — similar to systems in California and Oregon — gradually reduces the allowable amount of greenhouse gases linked to the production, blending and transportation of fuels such as gasoline, hydrogen, ethanol, diesel and biodiesel derived from used restaurant oil. Requirements don’t apply to retail fuel stations.Bill sponsor Mimi Stewart, the Senate’s top-ranked Democrat, said the regulations would attract new industrial entrepreneurs, improve air quality and address pressing environmental threats like wildfires and flooding that accompany climate change.Republican Sen. Pat Woods of Broadview warned the regulations could increase fuel prices for consumers. Stewart said those costs would amount to just few cents on the gallon.The Environment Department would hire a half-dozen full time employees to roll out the clean fuel program over a two year period.___Attanasio is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative. Report for America is a nonprofit national service program that places journalists in local newsrooms to report on under-covered issues. Follow Attanasio on Twitter.