Nonfiction 1. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)2. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 3. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 4. Red-Handed by Peter Schweizer, narrated by Charles Constant (HarperAudio)5. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) 6. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)7. Detox Your Thoughts by Andrea Bonior, PhD, narrated by the author (Chronicle Prism)8. 12 Rules for Life by Jordan B. Peterson and Norman Doidge, MD - foreword, narrated by Jordan B. Peterson (Random House Canada)9. Unf--k Your Brain by Faith G. Harper, PhD LPC-S ACS ACN, narrated by the author (Blackstone Audio, Inc.)ADVERTISEMENT10. If You Tell by Gregg Olsen, narrated by Karen Peakes (Brilliance Audio)Fiction1. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)2. Quicksilver by Dean Koontz, narrated by Todd Haberkorn (Brilliance Audio)Entertainment‘Dune’ director out, KStew in and more Oscars surprises'Power of the Dog' tops Oscar noms with 12; 'Dune' nabs 10Shaq, Usher and Drake shows all highlight Super Bowl weekAdele up for trophies and set to perform at UK's Brit Awards3. Hedgewitch by Terry Mancour, narrated by John Lee (Podium Audio)4. The Widow by K. L. Slater, performed by Lucy Price-Lewis (Audible Studios)5. American Girl by Wendy Walker, performed by Paige Layle, Carson Beck, Josh Hurley, Alexander Cendese, Carly Robins, Hillary Huber and Molly Secours (Audible Originals) 6. The Maid by Nita Prose, narrated by Lauren Ambrose (Random House Audio)7. Project Hail Mary by Andy Weir, performed by Ray Porter (Audible Studios)8. Winter Garden by Kristin Hannah, narrated by Susan Ericksen (Brilliance Audio)9. Regretting You by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Tanya Eby and Lauren Ezzo (Brilliance Audio)10. Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone, Book 1 by J.K. Rowling, narrated by Jim Dale (Pottermore Publishing)