Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Facial recognition-Lunar New Year-Dinosaurs-------STORIES:Government agencies are tapping a facial recognition company to prove you’re you – here’s why that raises concerns about privacy, accuracy and fairnessADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY Federal and state governments are turning to a facial recognition company to ensure that people accessing services are who they say they are. The move promises to cut down on fraud, but at what cost? 1179 words. By James Hendler, Rensselaer Polytechnic InstituteTechnologyIsraeli police: Possible improper surveillance by our ownTesla recall: 'Full Self-Driving' software runs stop signsHackers prey on public schools, adding stress amid pandemicFaith in the metaverse: A VR quest for community, fellowshipHow to build wildfire-resistant communities on the wildland fringeCOMMENTARY As more people move into high fire-risk areas and rebuilding after destructive blazes, an architect explains what to do to keep properties as safe as possible. 971 words. By Jeanne Homer, Oklahoma State UniversityChina’s biggest holiday: The Lunar New Year and how it is celebratedRELIGION The Lunar New Year celebrations that start on Feb. 1 will go on for a week. It is the year of the tiger, considered in Chinese culture as the foremost among all beasts. 1202 words. By Mario Poceski, University of FloridaWhy taking fever-reducing meds and drinking fluids may not be the best way to treat flu and feverCOMMENTARY In some cases, fever reducers and extra fluid intake can weaken the body’s response to infection. 836 words. By Tamara Hew-Butler, Wayne State UniversityDid male and female dinosaurs differ? A new statistical technique is helping answer the questionADVERTISEMENTSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  The lack of large numbers of fossils makes it hard to study sexual dimorphism in dinosaurs. But a new statistical approach offers insight into this question and others across science. 1135 words. By Evan Thomas Saitta, University of ChicagoSeizures can cause memory loss, and brain-mapping research suggests one reason whySCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Many people with epilepsy are unable to remember what happened immediately before they have a seizure. This may be because seizures and memory use the same pathways of the brain. 629 words. By Anastasia Brodovskaya, University of Virginia and Jaideep Kapur, University of VirginiaChina has no plan for who will succeed Xi Jinping – leaving the nation and the world in uncertaintyCOMMENTARY In the past, the lack of a succession plan for China has led to political unrest in the country. If it happens again, it will also affect the world. 1085 words. By Amitrajeet A. Batabyal, Rochester Institute of TechnologyNew flood maps show US damage rising 26% in next 30 years due to climate change alone, and the inequity is starkCOMMENTARY A street-by-street analysis shows where the risks are rising fastest and also lays bare the inequities of who has to endure America’s crippling flood problem. 1029 words. By Oliver Wing, University of Bristol; Carolyn Kousky, University of Pennsylvania; Jeremy Porter, City University of New York, and Paul Bates, University of BristolHow Brad Pitt’s green housing dream for Hurricane Katrina survivors turned into a nightmareCOMMENTARY So much went wrong with the homes built by the Make It Right Foundation that its low-income homebuyers were deprived of  the financial security they were promised. 1413 words. By Judith Keller, University of Illinois at Urbana-ChampaignUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.