KYIV, Ukraine (AP) — Associated Press journalists around Ukraine and beyond are documenting military activity during Russia’s invasion. With disinformation rife and social media amplifying military claims and counter-claims, determining exactly what is happening is difficult. Here’s a look at what could be confirmed Friday.Activity with direct witnesses:-- Explosions heard from central Kyiv, about 800 meters (half a mile) from the president’s headquarters.-- Multi-story apartment building in Kyiv hit by shelling, with major damage, on the eastern side of the Dnipro River that cuts through the capital, 13 kilometers (8 miles) southeast of the government quarter.— Shooting near a main thoroughfare leading into central Kyiv from the south.— Ukrainian soldiers evacuating an unmarked military vehicle damaged by gunfire in Kyiv, in the Obolon district about 10 kilometers (6 miles) north of the government quarterADVERTISEMENT— Ukrainian military establishing defensive positions at bridges around Kyiv. Armored personnel carriers driving through Kyiv streets. Ukrainian authorities placed snowplows at some spots along Kyiv roads to force traffic to slow down.Russia-Ukraine ConflictUkraine invasion: What to know as Russian troops sweep inUS futures down, global shares rebound as Russia eyes KyivSorting fact, disinformation after Russian attack on UkraineRussia loses Champions League final to Paris; Sochi F1 axed— A bridge destroyed at Ivankiv, some 60 kilometers (40 miles) northwest of Kyiv.Announced by Ukrainian and Russian authorities, and others:— Ukraine’s nuclear energy regulator said higher than usual gamma radiation levels have been detected in the area Chernobyl nuclear plant, site of the world’s worst nuclear accident, after it was seized by the Russian military. The Russian Defense Ministry said radiation levels in the area have remained normal. — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that 137 “heroes,” including 10 military officers, had been killed, and one of his advisers said about 400 Russian forces had died. Moscow has given no casualty count. Neither claim could be independently verified.— The U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights said its staffers have so far verified at least 127 civilian casualties, 25 people killed and 102 injured, mostly from shelling and airstrikes.— The Russian military said it took control of an airport outside the Ukrainian capital. The airport in Hostomel, a town 7 kilometers (4 miles) from Kyiv, has a runway long enough to receive all types of aircraft, including the biggest cargo planes. Its seizure allows Russia to airlift troops directly to Kyiv’s outskirts. — The mayor said a school building was hit by a Ukrainian shell in the rebel-held city of Horlivka in eastern Ukraine, killing its headteacher and a teacher; rebels who hold Donetsk said the city’s main hospital was damaged by shelling but there were no casualties.___Follow AP’s coverage of the Ukraine crisis at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine