NEW YORK (AP) — In an ode to the energy of New York City nightlife, Michael Kors held his first live nighttime runway show, giving celebrity guests and fashion luminaries alike an excuse to dress up for a night on the town.Kors brought the sparkle in celebration of his Fall/Winter 2022 collection Tuesday night at live music venue Terminal 5. As models strutted down the catwalk in glittering gowns, neon-hued knits and statement outerwear, Grammy-winning artist Miguel performed songs from Prince including “Raspberry Beret” and “I Would Die 4 You.”After the past two years of the pandemic, Kors said he wanted to give his New York Fashion Week audience a live performance. And he certainly brought the glitz.“In this collection, there is not a tracksuit, flip flop or sneaker,” Kors said in an interview before the show. “This is really all about being polished, feeling glamorous and hitting the streets.”ADVERTISEMENTMany of the celebrities in attendance wore black, the designer’s color of choice. In the front row, Brooke Shields chatted with Elle magazine editor and “Project Runway” judge Nina Garcia, while Blake Lively greeted New York Mayor Eric Adams.EntertainmentCNN probe complete, yet mysteries on Cuomo, Zucker remainTroy Kotsur's road to making history at the OscarsCatalan family drama 'Alcarràs' wins Berlin's Golden BearThe Blonds end fashion week with hot vampires, writhing trioTikTok star Addison Rae and “Riverdale” actor Camila Mendes said they both wore black to celebrate the theme of New York nightlife.The show kicked off with models wearing neutral tones — a camel wool coat, a chocolate cashmere pullover, a white cashmere bodysuit — before switching it up with a silver trench, a fuchsia cashmere sweater scarf and yellow minidress. Models shimmered from their dresses to their shoes. The menswear designs didn’t leave out the flair either with model Alton Mason sporting a shearling scarf reminiscent of a Harry Styles feather boa look.Celebrities were not only in the audience but on the runway: Bella and Gigi Hadid, Irina Shayk and Emily Ratajkowski all walked in the show. Bella Hadid, a familiar face of the brand’s recent campaigns, sashayed down the runway in a black stretch cutout gown with sequins. Since the start of the pandemic, New York City has been on a rollercoaster, with restaurants and nightlife opening and closing, Kors noted. He said many New Yorkers had to choose comfort over self-expression. “We think about comfort because we are pragmatic, but I think that people sacrificed the joy of expression and the joy of feeling confident,” the designer said. “At a certain point you really lose your identity, so I think this has regenerated and rejuvenated people’s sort of joy in getting dressed.”“So, it’s really I think an exciting moment to see this sleeping beauty awake,” he added.