___Key inflation gauge hit 6.1% in January, highest since 1982WASHINGTON (AP) — An inflation gauge that is closely monitored by the Federal Reserve jumped 6.1% in January compared with a year ago, the latest evidence that Americans are enduring sharp price increases that will likely worsen after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. It was the largest year-over-year rise since 1982. Robust consumer spending has combined with widespread product and worker shortages to create the highest inflation in four decades — a heavy burden for U.S. households, especially lower-income families faced with elevated costs for food, fuel and rent. At the same time, consumers as a whole largely shrugged off the higher prices last month and boosted their spending 2.1% from December to January. ___Prices are up everywhere with inflation. Except in my 401(k)NEW YORK (AP) — Inflation does not discriminate. Just like it’s squeezing everybody’s wallet, it’s hitting almost every investment in a retirement account. Stocks have been shaky this year, with the S&P 500 at one point dropping more than 10% from its record, mostly because of inflation worries. Bond prices have also tumbled. Before gold’s recent spurt due to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, it was coming off its worst year in the last six. The reality is that no perfect playbook exists for how to invest in a high-inflation world. But many on Wall Street say some investments could hold up better than others. Russia-Ukraine ConflictUkraine invasion: What to know as Russian forces target KyivUS, Europe step up Russia sanctions to target Putin directlyUkrainians flee war, seeking safety across western borders'I don't want to die': Ukrainians fear as invasion closes inADVERTISEMENT___US, Europe agree to freeze assets of Russia’s Putin, LavrovBRUSSELS (AP) — With a military intervention in Ukraine off the table, countries around the world are looking to heap more financial punishment on Moscow. The United States, Britain and European Union said Friday they will move to sanction Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. The EU’s unanimous decision, part of a broader sanctions package, indicated that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe. White House press secretary Jen Psaki indicated the U.S. sanctions will include a travel ban. ___Stocks up, fear down on Wall Street despite Ukraine invasionNEW YORK (AP) — Relief flowed through Wall Street on Friday, even as deadly attacks continued to rage in Ukraine. Stocks rose sharply, oil prices fell and investors turned away from gold and other traditional havens they favor when fear is high. The S&P 500 jumped 2.2% following a wild Thursday. Stocks have made big swings as Russia’s invasion raised the prospect of even higher inflation, particularly in energy prices, and threatened to put a drag on the global economy. The volatility seemed likely to continue, with so much uncertainty about Ukraine as well as over how quickly the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates. ___ADVERTISEMENTBiden, Europe waiting on key SWIFT sanction against RussiaWASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. and European officials are holding one key financial sanction against Russia in reserve. They’re choosing not to boot Russia off SWIFT, the dominant system for global financial transactions. The Russian invasion of Ukraine caused a barrage of new financial sanctions Thursday. The sanctions are meant to isolate, punish and impoverish Russia in the long term. President Joe Biden announced restrictions on exports to Russia and sanctions against Russian banks and state-controlled companies. But Biden pointedly played down the need to block Russia from SWIFT. Biden says that while it’s “always” still an option, “right now that’s not the position that the rest of Europe wishes to take.”___EU finance chiefs grapple with economic fallout from attackBRUSSELS (AP) — After the political outrage against Russia comes the economic reckoning. Finance ministers of the 19 countries that use the euro gathered Friday in Paris to weigh the economic fallout of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and the resulting European Union sanctions. The EU, and allies like the U.S., are trying to starve Russia of international capital and key industrial technologies. EU government heads approved new penalties at an emergency meeting Thursday evening, and they will be submitted for approval to EU foreign ministers Friday. Some national leaders acknowledged the pain of sanctions also would be felt in Europe. The EU faces considerable costs because of close economic ties with Russia.___J&J, distributors finalize $26B landmark opioid settlementCAMDEN, N.J. (AP) — Drugmaker Johnson & Johnson and three major distributors have finalized a nationwide settlement over their role in the opioid addiction crisis. The announcement Friday clears the way for $26 billion to flow to nearly every state and local government in the U.S. It’s the largest settlement to date among the many opioid-related cases that have been playing out across the country and is expected to provide a significant boost to programs aimed at reversing the crisis in places that have been devastated by it. That includes many parts of rural America. The money is to be delivered over 18 years, and most of it must be used to fight the epidemic.___The S&P 500 added 95.95 points, or 2.2%, to 4,384.65. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 834.92 points, or 2.5%, to 34,058.75. The Nasdaq advanced 221.04 points, or 1.6%, to 13,694.62. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 44.92 points, or 2.3%, to 2,040.93.