A look at what’s happening in European soccer on Tuesday:ENGLANDManchester United has a chance to lift the mood following the shock FA Cup exit to second-tier Middlesbrough when playing a Burnley side that has won once in the Premier League all season. United is trying to cling onto fourth place to qualify for the Champions League. Burnley is trying to climb off the bottom of the standings. The other teams in the relegation zone are also in action with Newcastle hosting Everton and Watford at West Ham. It is Newcastle’s first game since the end of the January transfer window when the club spent more than $100 million on new players, including Bruno Guimaraes.ITALYFresh from its 2-1 loss against bitter rival AC Milan in the city derby, Inter looks to bounce back against AS Roma in an Italian Cup quarterfinal. It’s a big night for Roma coach Jose Mourinho. The Portuguese tactician faces Inter, the club he led to the Serie A-Italian Cup-Champions League treble in 2010. Under Mourinho, Roma is having an inconsistent season. The team dropped to seventh in the standings after drawing 0-0 at home to struggling Genoa over the weekend.ADVERTISEMENTSoccerChelsea pays damages to ex-youth players over past racismWorld Cup doubts see UK-Ireland drop 2030 bid, target EurosMATCHDAY: Man United visits Burnley; Inter plays Roma in cupGreece promises new rules for soccer fan clubs after murderFRANCEMonaco takes on second-tier Amiens for a place in the semifinals of the French Cup. Monaco is looking sharp again under attack-minded coach Philippe Clement and starts heavy favorite at home against Amiens, which is 14th in the second division. Monaco striker Wissam Ben Yedder looks close to his best form since Clement took over, and will be confident of adding to his five goals in the competition this season. The France striker has netted 21 times in all competitions. Monaco was French Cup runner-up last year to Paris Saint-Germain.___More AP soccer: https://apnews.com/hub/soccer  and  https://twitter.com/AP_Sports