PARIS (AP) — Kieran Crowley knows how it feels to be the favorite, having won rugby world championships as an All Black and under-19 coach.He also well knows the feeling of being a rank underdog, having coached Canada and Benetton Treviso. So the new coach of Italy is unfazed and realistic about leading his side which hasn’t won a Six Nations match in seven years against title favorite France on Sunday at the Stade de France.Perhaps the only thing they have in common is that both won their last tests. Then again, on the day last November that Crowley’s Italy struggled to beat lowly Uruguay to end a two-year losing drought, France tore apart New Zealand 40-25.And yet, Crowley is somewhat upbeat.“The work done in these weeks of preparation ... has been intense and of quality,” he said. “There is a lot of energy in the group and awareness ... it will be important to stay clear in the key moments of the match.”Easier said than done against a side with world player of the year Antoine Dupont orchestrating attacks alongside the graceful Romain Ntamack at flyhalf. Both were outstanding against the All Blacks and coach Fabien Galthié has made only two changes from that side — drafting in Dylan Cretin at flanker and Julien Marchand at hooker.Galthié has arguably the most exciting halves in world rugby. And on the horizon is the Rugby World Cup on home soil next year. But on Sunday, at least, they might not be so sharp having both recently recovered from COVID-19 and hardly playing club rugby.“It’s curious because it’s the first time in the tournament that we’ve been faced with this,” Galthié said. “Normally they arrive here having played 10 games. So the question is how good their form will be? Our training methods have allowed us to prepare players for Sunday in a short space of time.” Galthié won’t be facing Crowley, though. He tested positive for the virus on Friday and is isolating, so assistant coach Raphael Ibanez is taking over. Galthie will relay advice by phone.Galthié is the fifth member of the French squad to test positive since Jan. 24. Dupont and Ntamack were among eight players to test positive before then and eventually cleared to return. Under tournament protocol, the players will undergo more tests on Saturday.In two years under Galthié, France has twice finished runner-up in the Six Nations. Second won’t be tolerated this time, as France seeks a first title in 12 years to end its second longest tournament drought. To accommodate Cretin, the versatile Cameron Woki was moved from the back row to lock.But backup flyhalf Matthieu Jalibert was left out as he works back to full fitness and Virimi Vakatawa, one of France’s best players in the past two Six Nations, was not in the squad after a loss of form.Crowley handed debuts to right winger Tommaso Menoncello and No. 8 Toa Halafihi in a fresh-looking Azzurri team where flanker Sebastian Negri is the most experienced with 36 caps. Fullback Edoardo Padovani is next with 30.Twelve of Crowley’s starting side play for Benetton, and halves Stephen Varney and Paolo Garbisi are among the three who play elsewhere.Italy was routed by France 50-10 in Rome last year, and recent history doesn’t dissuade another heavy defeat under the Azzurri’s third coach in four years.___Lineups:France: Melvyn Jaminet, Damian Penaud, Gael Fickou, Jonathan Danty, Gabin Villière, Romain Ntamack, Antoine Dupont (captain); Gregory Alldritt, Dylan Cretin, Anthony Jelonch, Paul Willemse, Cameron Woki, Uini Atonio, Julien Marchand, Cyril Baille. Reserves: Peato Mauvaka, Jean-Baptiste Gros, Demba Bamba, Romain Taofifenua, Francois Cros, Maxime Lucu, Yoram Moefana, Thomas Ramos.Italy: Edoardo Padovani, Tommaso Menoncello, Juan Ignacio Brex, Marco Zanon, Montanna Ioane, Paolo Garbisi, Stephen Varney; Toa Halafihi, Michele Lamaro, Sebastian Negri, Federico Ruzza, Niccolo Cannone, Tiziano Pasquali, Gianmarco Lucchesi, Danilo Fischetti. Reserves: Epalahame Faiva, Ivan Nemer, Giosue Zilocchi, Marco Fuser, Giovanni Pettinelli, Manuel Zuliani, Callum Braley, Leonardo Marin.___AP Sports Writer Samuel Petrequin in Brussels contributed to this report.___More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports