DENVER (AP) — Gabriel Landeskog, Devon Toews and Valeri Nichushkin scored for Colorado, and the Avalanche withstood a last-minute blitz by Tampa Bay to beat the Lightning 3-2 on Thursday night.Nikita Kucherov and Brayden Point scored for Tampa Bay, which pulled goalie Andrei Vasilevskiy for an extra skater with just over three minutes remaining but could not beat Darcy Kuemper again.Returning from the All-Star break, Colorado won for the 11th time in 12 games overall and extended its franchise-record home points streak to 22 games (20-0-2).In a matchup between two of the NHL’s top teams, the Lightning cut their deficit to 3-2 on a goal by Point at 15:54 of the second period. Mikhail Sergachev sent a lead pass to Point, who streaked into the Colorado zone ahead of two defenders and wristed a shot past Kuemper. Colorado attacked the Tampa Bay zone aggressively from the outset, scoring twice in the opening minutes and getting 24 shots off in the first period to just 10 by the Lightning. ADVERTISEMENTLandeskog got the Avalanche on the board with a backhand tip-in off a feed from Mikko Rantanen. Toews made it 2-0 at 6:16 by flipping the puck over Vasilevskiy’s blocker after a cross-ice pass from Nazem Kadri.HockeyLocked out MLB players reject offer of federal mediationSoFi Stadium ready to bring Hollywood opulence to Super BowlJuggling act: Rams O'Connell game planning and looking aheadBearcats, Bengals finally gave Cincy fans reason to cheerTampa Bay, which was down two goals before putting a shot on Kuemper, answered with a goal by Kucherov at 10:45 of the first. But the Avalanche restored their two-goal lead at 1:56 of the second when Nichushkin wristed a shot past Vasilevskiy at the end of a 2-on-1 rush. NOTES: The game was a homecoming for Tampa Bay defenseman Cal Foote, who was born in Denver while his father, Adam, played for the Avalanche. … There’s a chance Avalanche C Nathan MacKinnon, sidelined since sustaining a concussion and facial fracture in a collision during a game Jan. 26 against Boston, could return Sunday against Dallas. … Colorado swept the two-game season series.UP NEXTLightning: Play at Arizona on Friday night.Avalanche: Visit the Dallas Stars on Sunday.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports