If there is no doctor in the house, Amazon’s Alexa will soon be able to summon one.Amazon and telemedicine provider Teladoc Health are starting a voice-activated virtual care program that lets customers get medical help without picking up their phones. The service, for health issues that aren’t emergencies, will be available around the clock on Amazon’s Echo devices. Customers can tell the voice assistant Alexa that they want to talk to a doctor, and that will prompt a call back on the device from a Teladoc physician.The program, announced Monday, marks Amazon’s latest expansion into health care and another push by the retail giant into a form of care that grew rapidly during the COVID-19 pandemic.“Telehealth now is something that patients have gotten used to and may come to expect as an option for their care,” said Lori Uscher-Pines, a senior policy researcher with Rand Corp. “(Before) the pandemic, there might not have been this much awareness that this was a service that was available.”ADVERTISEMENTAmazon already dispenses prescription drugs and is expanding an Amazon Care program it launched in 2019 that offers telemedicine visits with an option to send a care provider to the patient if they need an in-person visit.TechnologyHow tech could help out endangered languages like CherokeeNSO sues Israeli paper after explosive articles on policeWar via TikTok: Russia's new tool for propaganda machine MIT severs ties with Russian school after Ukraine invasionThe company’s latest health care expansion comes as several competitors including Walmart and the drugstore chains CVS and Walgreens also beef up their medical offerings. They are adding care clinics or virtual programs to make it easier for patients to find regular help in the fragmented U.S. health care system.Insurers and employers that pay medical bills are pushing for this as a way to improve health and cut down on hospital stays or other big medical expenses. “Health care is a huge industry of enormous value, and it is ripe for disruption,” said Neil Saunders, managing director of GlobalData Retail. “And Amazon views itself as a disruptor.”Some hospitals already use Alexa as a voice assistant in patient rooms. The service announced Monday will be available for customers who create an Alexa voice ID. After telling the voice assistant that they need to talk to a doctor, people will be connected to a Teladoc call center and then get a call back from a physician.The cost for a visit will be $75 without health insurance. A Teladoc spokesman said Amazon will not be able to access, record or store the content of the ensuing call.Amazon is moving deeper into health care as other growth engines slow. In its most recent quarter, the Seattle-based company reported that its online retail business dropped 1%.ADVERTISEMENTKate McCarthy, senior research director at research firm Gartner, sees room for Amazon to expand beyond simple doctor calls. In particular, she noted that the company’s health care segment in its cloud computing division is aimed at coming up with new services and health care products.McCarthy said she could see Amazon eventually helping to monitor patients that go home after a hospital stay, using Alexa and sensors to check how often they flush the toilet or open the refrigerator. With its prescription services, Amazon hasn’t bit off meaningful share from its drugstore rivals, but McCarthy noted it could become a legitimate player.“There isn’t one kind of magic market entrance,” she added “It will be a combination of things.”___Follow Tom Murphy on Twitter: https://twitter.com/thpmurphy