MILWAUKEE (AP) — Anfernee Simons scored 31 points and the Portland Trail Blazers capitalized on Giannis Antetokounmpo’s absence, beating the Milwaukee Bucks 122-107 on Monday night for their third straight victory.Simons has averaged 30 points and has shot 18 of 39 from 3-point range during Portland’s winning streak. Antetokounmpo didn’t play for the Bucks due to a sore left ankle. Milwaukee coach Mike Budenholzer said before the game he believes it’s a short-term issue.Josh Hart scored 27 points and Jusuf Nurkic had 23 points and 16 rebounds as the Trail Blazers continued to thrive after reshaping their roster at the trade deadline. Portland outrebounded Milwaukee 58-43.The two teams met just nine days after the  Bucks’ 137-108 victory at Phoenix,  but much had changed with both squads since.ADVERTISEMENTThe Blazers traded  C.J. McCollum, Larry Nance Jr. and Tony Snell to the New Orleans Pelicans last week for a package that was headlined by Hart. The Bucks sent Donte DiVincenzo to Sacramento and moved Rodney Hood and Semi Ojeleye to the Los Angeles Clippers as part of a four-team trade  that brought them veteran center Serge Ibaka.Portland Trail BlazersSimons scores 31 as Trail Blazers beat Bucks, minus GiannisSimons scores 31, Portland beats Giannis-less Bucks 122-107Antetokounmpo won't play against Blazers due to sore ankleAntetokounmpo and the Bucks take on the Trail BlazersIbaka made his Bucks debut Monday and filled Antetokounmpo’s spot in the starting lineup. Ibaka had the Bucks’ first six points, but didn’t score again in his 31-minute outing, though he did have seven rebounds.Jrue Holiday led the Bucks with 23 points. Bobby Portis and Jordan Nwora had 17 each. Khris Middleton was one assist from a triple-double, finishing with 16 points, 11 rebounds and nine assists.Hart scored 23 points Saturday in his first game with the Blazers, a 112-103 victory over the New York Knicks. He followed that up by shooting 5 of 9 from 3-point range on Monday and collecting seven rebounds and five assists to go along with his points.After neither team led by more than six points for most of the first half, the Blazers broke the game open by scoring 14 straight points to grab a 65-48 advantage. Simons scored the last nine points in that run by making three straight 3-pointers over a span of 70 seconds.Simons had 16 points in the last 7:36 of the second quarter. His surge helped the Blazers outscore the Bucks 34-14 over the last 8 ½ minutes of that period, turning a 40-37 deficit into a 71-54 halftime lead.Portland got the lead up to 21 points in the third quarter. The Bucks got the margin down to eight on a few occasions early in the fourth period, but couldn’t get any closer.TIP-INSADVERTISEMENTTrail Blazers: Portland was one point away from the highest first-half total the Bucks have allowed this season. Miami scored 72 points in the first half of a 137-95 blowout of the Bucks on Oct. 21. … Simons has scored at least 19 points in seven straight games. … The Blazers snapped a six-game skid in the series. Portland hadn’t beaten the Bucks since Nov. 6, 2018.Bucks: Pat Connaughton underwent surgery Monday after breaking a bone in his right hand during a 131-107 loss at Phoenix. The Bucks say they expect him to miss four weeks. “It gives him plenty of time to get back and play,” Budenholzer said. “We’ve been told he can condition a lot, do a lot of things during those four weeks, so considering the circumstances, a lot of positive today.” ... George Hill missed a seventh straight game with neck soreness. ... Lindell Wigginton had a career-high 11 points.UP NEXTTrail Blazers: At Memphis on Wednesday. The Blazers are 2-1 against the Grizzlies this season, and haven’t faced them since Dec. 19. Bucks: Host the Indiana Pacers on Tuesday. The Bucks have won their last seven matchups with the Pacers and are 3-0 against them this season.___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports