PHOENIX (AP) — Connor Joe drove in the go-ahead run with a two-out single off All-Star Joe Mantiply in the seventh inning, and the Colorado Rockies rallied to beat Arizona 3-2 on Sunday and take three of four from the Diamondbacks for a rare road series win.Colorado took advantage of third baseman Josh Rojas’ throwing error on a potential-inning-ending, double-play grounder to score three unearned runs in the seventh and overcome a 2-0 deficit.The Rockies arrived in the desert with a major league-worst 12-26 road record, a contrast to their 23-21 mark at mile-high Coors Field in Denver. The Rockies won a road series for just the fourth time this year.“In this series we got some big hits,” Colorado manager Bud Black said. “We kept our heads on and kept playing with a focus.”Ryan McMahon singled off Keynan Middleton (1-2) with one out in the seventh, and Yonathan Daza hit a grounder to third. Rojas’ throw in the dirt bounced off the glove of Sergio Alcántara at second and skipped into right field, putting runners at the corners. ADVERTISEMENT“I just tried to rush it,” Rojas said of the bad throw. “Tried to catch it and throw in one motion. Left it short and cost us three runs.”Middleton struck out Brian Serven, then allowed Garrett Hampson’s two-run double off the base of the left-center wall.MLBScherzer, other latest $100M contracts not on All-Star teamsRays look to break 3-game slide, play the Red SoxRangers host the Athletics to begin 3-game seriesBraves host the Mets on home winning streakMantiply, told before the game he was picked as a first-time All-Star, entered and got ahead of Joe 0-2, then gave up a lined single to left on an inside fastball.“Obviously I wish we could have pulled that one out,” Mantiply said. “I think with a win (the All-Star nod) it would sink in a little better.”Germán Márquez (5-7) allowed three hits and two walks in seven innings with four strikeouts. He retired 12 straight between Ketel Marte’s two-out homer in the first and Alcantara’s two-out single in the fifth.“It was amazing,” Márquez said. “Fastball location was good. I feel good with my delivery now.”Arizona added a run in the sixth after José Herrera walked leading off and took third on Rojas’ single. Alek Thomas then hit a grounder to Joe at first. Rather than check the runner immediately, he turned to throw to second, looked to third, then threw to second for the forceout as Herrera scored.Daniel Bard got three straight outs for his 18th save in 20 chances.After winning the first two against the Giants, Arizona finished with a 3-4 homestand. Tyler Gilbert pitched 5 2/3 scoreless innings and gave up three hits.“This is the big leagues, and when you give a team an extra out or two, they’re going to make you pay for it a lot of times,” Diamondbacks manager Torey Lovullo said.ROAD WOESColorado had a two-game sweep at Texas on April 11-12 and took two of three at Detroit on April 23-24 and at San Francisco from June 7-9. Colorado has lost eight road series and split one. The Rockies won a four-game series at Arizoa for the first time. They had lost five series at the Diamondbacks since a three-game sweep in 2020.WEB GEMSEach Arizona outfielder made an outstanding catch. Thomas made a leaping catch at the wall in center to take an extra-base hit away from Joe leading off the game. Later in the inning, with two on, Daulton Varsho made a sliding catch in the right-field corner to rob Brendan Rodgers. Left fielder David Peralta robbed McMahon of a home run in the second.ADVERTISEMENTColorado’s Daza also made a fine running catch on Rojas’ drive to left-center leading off the home first.FIRST-TIME ALL-STARRockies first baseman C.J. Cron, another first-time All-Star, didn’t play for the second straight day after being hit by a pitch on his left wrist in Friday’s game. Cron is hitting .295 with 20 home runs and 66 RBIs. Cron had played in every game this season before the injury.MOVESThe Diamondbacks recalled RHP Edwin Uceta from Triple-A Reno. RHP Sean Poppen was optioned to to Reno after Saturday’s game.HOTRojas hit .478 (11 for 23) during the seven-game homestand with five doubles, a homer and eight RBIs.TRAINER’S ROOMRockies: Black said Cron and SS José Iglesias were better and may play Monday. ... LF Kris Bryant (cramp) left the game in the eighth but Black said he was fine after the game.UP NEXTColorado: RHP José Ureña (0-0, 2.51) starts against the Padres’ Sean Manaea (3-4, 4.18) in the first of four games at Coors Field.Arizona: RHP Merrill Kelly (7-5, 3.42) opposes RHP Alex Cobb (3-3, 4.74) in the opener of a three-game series at San Francisco.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports