1 of 4Tyler Reddick reacts after winning the Kwik Trip 250 after a NASCAR Cup Series auto race Sunday, July 3, 2022, at Road America in Elkhart Lake, Wis. (AP Photo/Morry Gash)1 of 4Tyler Reddick reacts after winning the Kwik Trip 250 after a NASCAR Cup Series auto race Sunday, July 3, 2022, at Road America in Elkhart Lake, Wis. (AP Photo/Morry Gash)All Times Eastern NASCAR CUP SERIES Quaker State 400 presented by WalmartSite: Hampton, Georgia.Schedule: Saturday, qualifying, 11:35 a.m.; Sunday, race, 3 p.m. (USA).Track: Atlanta Motor Speedway.Race distance: 260 laps, 400 miles.Last year: Kurt Busch won after starting eighth.Last race: Tyler Reddick outdueled Chase Elliott and cruised to victory at Road America for his first victory in NASCAR’s premier series.Fast facts: Reddick became the 13th different race-winner through 18 events and the fifth first-time winner this season. ... His victory made 2014 series champion Kevin Harvick, the fourth-ranked non-winner in the standings, the first driver who would not make the 16-driver playoffs if the standings remain the same through the final eight races of the regular season. ... Elliott expanded his points lead to 33 over Ryan Blaney and 35 over Ross Chastain. ... Blaney, Martin Truex Jr. and Christopher Bell are the non-winners in the top 16.Next race: July 17, Loudon, New Hampshire.ADVERTISEMENTOnline: http://www.nascar.comNASCAR XFINITY SERIES Alsco Uniforms 250Site: Hampton, Georgia.Schedule: Saturday, qualifying, 10:05 a.m., and race, 5 p.m. (USA).Track: Atlanta Motor Speedway.Race distance: 163 laps, 251 miles.Sports2 sets down, Djokovic wins 26th consecutive Wimbledon matchFormer NFL receiver Demaryius Thomas' family says he had CTESharks hire Mike Grier as NHL's first Black GMReds spoil Scherzer's return with a 1-0 ninth-inning winLast year: Kyle Busch won from the pole position.Last race: Ty Gibbs passed Kyle Larson on the last lap of overtime at Road America and won for the series-best fourth time this season.Fast facts: Gibbs trimmed his deficit from 25 points to nine behind points leader AJ Allmendinger. Justin Allgaier is third, 34 points behind. ... Gibbs has won four times in 16 races this season and eight times in 34 races for his career; no other driver has won more than twice this season. ... Allmendinger registered his 14th top-10 finish of the season. Fourth-place Noah Gragson is next with 11.Next race: July 16, Loudon, New Hampshire.Online: http://www.nascar.comNASCAR TRUCK SERIES O’Reilly Ato Parts 150 at Mid-OhioSite: Lexington, Ohio.Schedule: Friday, practice, 9:35 a.m., and qualifying, 3:35 p.m.; Saturday, race, 1:30 p.m. (FS1).Track: Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course.Race distance: 67 laps, 151 miles.Last year: First time at this venue.Last race: Ryan Preece pulled away on a restart with 10 laps to go, then held off challenges from Zane Smith and Carson Hocevar to win at Nashville for the second year in a row. Fast facts: Preece’s two victories have come in just eight career starts. ... Zane Smith is the new points leader by 21 over John Hunter Nemechek and 30 over defending series champion Ben Rhodes. ... Smith also leads with eight top-five finishes, 12 top 10s and 339 laps led. ... The top five in the standings are the only series regulars to have won races this season.Next race: July 23, Long Pond, Pennsylvania.Online: http://www.nascar.comFORMULA ONE Austrian Grand PrixSite: Spielberg, Austria.Schedule: Friday, practice, 7:30 a.m., and qualifying, 11 a.m.; Saturday, practice, 6:30 a.m., and sprint, 10:30 a.m.; Sunday, race, 9 a.m. (ESPN).Track: Red Bull Ring.ADVERTISEMENTRace distance: 71 laps, 190.42 miles.Last year: Max Verstappen won on consecutive weekends, both times from the pole position.Last race: Carlos Sainz Jr. won the British Grand Prix, his first career Formula One victory, when a late tire change allowed him to pull away.Fast facts: Sainz’s victory came in his 150th F1 start. ... He became just the fourth different winner through 10 races, with points leader Verstappen having won six times. ... Seven-time series champion Lewis Hamilton led laps for the first time this season and finished third, just his third podium finish of the season. ... Verstappen, who finished seventh after engine trouble, leads Sergio Perez by 34 points and Charles LeClerc by 43.Next race: July 24, Le Castellet, France.Online: http://www.formula1.comINDYCAR Last race: Scott McLaughlin won for the second time in his career, both this season, by outrunning defending series champion Alex Palou at Mid-Ohio.Next race: July 17, Toronto, Canada.Online: http://www.indycar.comNHRA DRAG RACING Last event: Mike Salinas won in Top Fuel and Robert Hight won in Funny Car in Norwalk, Ohio. Next event: July 15-17, Morrison, Colorado.Online: http://www.nhra.comWORLD OF OUTLAWSNext events: July 8, West Burlington, Iowa, and July 9, Wilmot, Wisconsin.Online: http://worldofoutlaws.com/sprintcars___ More AP auto racing: : https://apnews.com/hub/auto-racing and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports