____Fed: Sharply higher rates may be needed to quell inflationWASHINGTON (AP) — Federal Reserve officials were concerned at their meeting last month that consumers were starting to anticipate higher inflation, and they signaled that much higher interest rates could be needed to restrain it. The policymakers also acknowledged, in minutes from their meeting released Wednesday, that their rate hikes could weaken the economy. But they suggested that such steps were necessary to slow price increases back to the Fed’s 2% annual target. The Fed officials agreed that the central bank needed to raise its benchmark interest rate to “restrictive” levels that would slow the economy’s growth and “recognized that an even more restrictive stance could be appropriate” if inflation persisted.____French PM vows to boost economy amid impact of Ukraine warPARIS (AP) — France’s Prime Minister Elisabeth Borne has vowed to boost jobs, cut taxes, support purchasing power, tackle climate-related issues and help France better face the consequences of the war in Ukraine. She said that would include nationalizing electricity giant EDF. Borne laid out her main priorities Wednesday in her first major speech to the National Assembly after parliamentary elections last month cost French President Emmanuel Macron’s government its majority. She said the government plans to nationalize French electricity giant EDF amid an energy crisis aggravated by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The French state now holds an 84% stake in the company, one of the world’s biggest electricity producers.InflationInflation pushed 71M people into poverty since Ukraine warAsian stocks higher after Fed says rate hikes may be neededAsian stocks higher after Fed says rate hikes may be neededBiden in Ohio spotlights effort to rescue union pensionsADVERTISEMENT____Biden in Ohio spotlights effort to rescue union pensionsCLEVELAND (AP) — President Joe Biden has used an Ohio visit to showcase federal action aimed at shoring up pensions for millions of workers. It’s part of a broader effort to reinvigorate his political standing with blue-collar voters. Ohio has been trending strongly Republican in recent years, with Donald Trump easily carrying it twice. But Democrats have hopes of winning a Senate seat that is coming open. Biden on Wednesday announced a federal rule change that will allow major new financial support for troubled pensions that cover some 2 million to 3 million workers.____G-20 meeting may lead to wider divisions over war in UkraineWASHINGTON (AP) — Foreign ministers from the world’s largest nations are looking to address Russia’s war in Ukraine and its impact on global energy and food security when they meet in Indonesia this week. Yet instead of providing unity, the talks may well exacerbate splits over the Russia-Ukraine conflict. That could drag the Group of 20 nations into even deeper divisions. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi are set to attend the meeting in the Indonesian resort of Bali. It will mark the first time Blinken and Lavrov have been in the same room since January.____Apple to add ‘lockdown’ safeguard on iPhones, iPads, MacsCUPERTINO, Calif. (AP) — Apple plans to roll out a “lockdown” option for iPhones, iPads and Mac computers intended to protect against spyware unleashed by state-sponsored hackers — although enabling it will also make these devices less useful. The safeguard announced Wednesday is a tacit acknowledgement that not even Apple — the world’s most valuable company — has been able to adequately shield the iPhone and its other products against attacks from malicious actors backed by governments fishing for information about perceived adversaries. The new feature, called “lockdown mode,” will initially be offered in a test format before it’s released to all iPhone, IPad and Mac users, as part of a major software updates this fall.ADVERTISEMENT____OPEC secretary-general dies, just weeks shy of departureABUJA, Nigeria (AP) — The Secretary-General of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has died. Mohammad Barkindo died late Tuesday said a spokesman for Nigeria’s petroleum ministry and OPEC. The reason for his death was not immediately known. The Nigerian energy industry insider led the crude oil bloc since 2016, seeing it through some of its most turbulent times during the pandemic and its agreement known as OPEC+ with Russia to keep oil prices from plummeting. His role representing the bloc of 13 nations that make up OPEC took on even greater significance in past years amid a global effort to tackle climate change.ADVERTISEMENT____Sri Lankan president calls Russian leader seeking fuelCOLOMBO, Sri Lanka (AP) — Sri Lanka’s President Gotabaya Rajapaksa says that he had a telephone call with Russian leader Vladimir Putin to request credit support to import fuel for the island nation that’s facing its worst economic crisis in memory. Western nations largely have cut off energy imports from Russia in line with sanctions over its war on Ukraine. Sri Lanka’s Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said earlier that the government would look for other sources first but it has not been successful. Since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in late February, global oil prices have skyrocketed, prompting a number of countries to seek out Russian crude, offered at steep discounts. The government said earlier that no entity is willing to supply oil to Sri Lanka even for cash.____Cyprus brings back indoor mask wearing amid COVID-19 surgeNICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) — Cyprus has brought back compulsory mask-wearing in all indoor areas for everyone age 12 and over amid a surge of COVID-19 infections. The government said Wednesday the infection spike is in line with a global trend that’s mainly owed to the BA.4 and BA.5 variants of the coronavirus. Health Ministry figures say 19,503 people tested positive from a total of 147,623 samples between June 25 to July 5. The measures takes effect July 8.ADVERTISEMENT____US allows pharmacists to prescribe Pfizer’s COVID-19 pillWASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. pharmacists can now prescribe the leading COVID-19 pill directly to patients. The Food and Drug Administration said Wednesday that pharmacists can begin screening patients to see if they are eligible and then prescribe Pfizer’s drug Paxlovid. Previously only doctors could prescribe it. Paxlovid has been shown to curb the worst effects of COVID-19 but it has to be started within five days of symptoms. Paxlovid is intended for people with COVID-19 who are more likely to become seriously ill. That includes older people and those with other health conditions.____Work at a school or nonprofit? You could erase student loansNEW YORK (AP) — A deadline is fast approaching for teachers, librarians, nurses and others who work in public service to apply to have their student loan debt forgiven. New figures from the U.S. Department of Education show 145,000 borrowers have had the remainder of their debt canceled through the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program. Most of those cancellations have come since the government relaxed the complex rules to apply to the program last fall. But those less stringent rules will only apply until Oct. 31. Federal figures show that an estimated 43 million Americans carry student loans worth $1.6 trillion.____The S&P 500 rose 13.69 points, or 0.4%, to 3,845.08. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 69.86 points, or 0.2%, to 31,037.68. The Nasdaq rose 39.61 points, or 0.3%, to 11,361.85. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 13.78 points, or 0.8%, to 1,727.55.____