Michael Cheika noted how difficult it is to prepare a team to face the same opponents in rapid succession.Teams have more and up-to-date information, can identify who made things happen, and plot how to make things better.“The analysis gets bigger and bigger,” Cheika reasoned.The coach has been working on how his Argentina side can clinch their rugby series against Scotland on Saturday on the edge of the Andes in Salta with a match to spare, after winning the first test 26-18 a little further north in Jujuy.The Pumas haven’t beaten any tier one rivals in consecutive tests in six years.They and Scotland have plenty to work on after last weekend.Argentina, which hadn’t played in eight months, easily bottled up a Scotland side coming off a poor Six Nations campaign to lead 18-6 at halftime. Scotland finally clicked in the third quarter to tie the score but the Pumas hit back from the restart and managed the game comfortably for the last 10 minutes. ADVERTISEMENTIt was a double celebration of the Pumas’ first home game in nearly three years because of the pandemic, and Cheika’s first match in charge.The Pumas’ foundations were good, he said, particularly the scrum and maul. Discipline had to be improved.RugbySpringboks gamble as Wales banks on more resiliencePetaia at fullback for Wallabies, England shuffles back lineWallabies lock Swain suspended for 2 weeks for foul playAll Blacks lock Sam Whitelock ruled out of 2nd Ireland test“And we must stop looking at the scoreboard to focus on playing. At times we stopped attacking and I want the team to be encouraged to play without thinking so much about the result.”It was understandable that the Pumas relaxed at halftime. They scored two good tries and the Scots weren’t firing a shot. The visitors, chastened at halftime, responded in superb fashion. But as soon as Scotland tied the score after 56 minutes, Argentina produced a momentum-stealing try.Scotland coach Gregor Townsend was frustrated with his side’s numerous errors and failure to adapt to a stop-start game.“It was the lowest ball-in-play time we have ever had as a team,” he said. “But if that happens at the weekend we have got to make sure that, when the ball is in play, for either team, we play much better.”His response was to start his first-choice flankers Hamish Watson and Rory Darge. Watson was available for his 50th Scotland cap after a chest-shoulder injury in training.Hooker Dave Cherry, not seen since the 2021 Six Nations, and lock Sam Skinner were also injected into the pack.The backline’s only change was for scrumhalf Ben White, who made a try-scoring debut in the Six Nations win over England in February, to be given a chance ahead of Ali Price.Townsend also stuck by utility Blair Kinghorn at flyhalf with backup from rookie Ross Thompson.Cheika dropped fullback Juan Cruz Mallia even though he admitted he played well, to switch wing Emiliano Boffelli back there to see how he fares.Gonzalo Bertranou and Santiago Carreras were staying at 9-10 after the series-ending torn leg muscles to Tomas Cubelli and Nicolas Sanchez.No. 8 Pablo Matera was replaced by old hand Rodrigo Bruni after Matera took a blow to the face and didn’t train on Wednesday. But Cheika said Matera will be back for the third test next week.ADVERTISEMENTHis take on the second test was upgrades by both sides. “Scotland have been clear that they will want to try and play the game faster, and with their selection they will play more on the ground, on the ball, with the two back-rowers Watson and Darge,” Cheika said.“We want to improve, not because they will improve, which they will, but so we can improve our performance, our play. Then use being at home, having the crowd, to energise us for the game.”___Lineups:Argentina: Emiliano Boffelli, Santiago Cordero, Matias Orlando, Jeronimo de la Fuente, Juan Imhoff, Santiago Carreras, Gonzalo Bertranou; Rodrigo Bruni, Marcos Kremer, Juan Martin Gonzalez, Matias Alemanno, Guido Petti, Francisco Gomez Kodela, Julian Montoya (captain), Nahuel Tetaz Chaparro. Reserves: Agustin Creevy, Mayco Vivas, Joel Sclavi, Lucas Paulos, Facundo Isa, Felipe Ezcurra, Domingo Miotti, Matias Moroni.Scotland: Rory Hutchinson, Darcy Graham, Mark Bennett, Sam Johnson, Duhan van der Merwe, Blair Kinghorn, Ben White; Matt Fagerson, Hamish Watson, Rory Darge, Grant Gilchrist (captain), Sam Skinner, Zander Fagerson, Dave Cherry, Pierre Schoeman. Reserves: George Turner, Jamie Bhatti, Javan Sebastian, Scott Cummings, Andy Christie, Ali Price, Ross Thompson, Kyle Rowe.___More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports