STORY: HZ Saudi Arabia Hajj Preview - Hajj pilgrimage over the years +ARCHIVE+LENGTH: 04:56FIRST RUN: RESTRICTIONS: TYPE: Pashtun/NatsoundSOURCE: ASSOCIATED PRESS/BRITISH MOVIETONE/AP PHOTOSSTORY NUMBER: 4386651DATELINE: Various archive1954 - 2021, please see shotlist - Various, please see shotlistSAUDI ARABIA HAJJ PREVIEWSHOTLIST:SOURCE: ASSOCIATED PRESS/BRITISH MOVIETONE/AP PHOTOSRESTRICTION SUMMARY:LENGTH: 4:56++Disclaimer: British Movietone is an historical collection. Any views and expressions within either the video or metadata of the collection are reproduced for historical accuracy and do not represent the opinions or editorial policies of the Associated Press++BRITISH MOVIETONEARCHIVE: Hejaz region, Saudi Arabia - 30 August 1954++COMMENTARY ADDED AT SOURCE++++BLACK AND WHITE/4:3++1. Opening slate reading (English) “Mecca Pilgrimage”2. Hole in wall3. Various of pilgrims travelling for Hajj pilgrimageADVERTISEMENT4. Various of pilgrim encampment NARRATION (English): “Mecca, the chief town of the Hejaz in Saudi Arabia is the great holy city of Islam. The pilgrimage to it is made by holders of the faith from all over the world. They come from far and near in great caravans and convoys. Those who can afford it, ride to Mecca. Those who can not, simply walk, but to Mecca they all come to discharge their vow of pilgrimage. Vast encampments on the outskirts of the city accommodate the pilgrims in their tens of thousands.”COVID-19Biden to award Medal of Freedom to Biles, McCain, GiffordsMissouri lawmaker resigns from House after fraud convictionRomanian woman killed in 2nd Egypt shark attack in daysWimbledon crowds down 7% from 2019; 2nd-lowest since 2007ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVE: Mecca, Saudi Arabia - 4 April 1966++BLACK AND WHITE 4:3/MUTE++5. Various of Muslims praying to Kabaa6. Various of pilgrims on road, some stop to pray7. Various of King Faisal of Saudi Arabia receiving guests and dignitariesASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVE: Mecca, Saudi Arabia - 5 January 1977++4:3/MUTE++8. Various of pilgrims walking to Mecca9. Pan of large crowd of pilgrims prayingASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVE: Mecca, Saudi Arabia - 14 December 2007++4:3++10. Various high shots of the Kabaa and crowd praying and circulatingASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVE: Baghdad, Iraq - 15 March 1999++4:3++11. Zoom in of Iraqi child in Arab headdress12. Mid of Iraqi pilgrim beating drum13. Close of pilgrim crying14. Mid of pilgrims entering coach13. Various of coach leavingASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVE: Kabul, Afghanistan - 17 February 2002++4:3++14. Various of Afghan pilgrims being searched and checked by military police15. SOUNDBITE (Pashtun) Afghan Hajj pilgrim, name not given:“I have been waiting for an aircraft for four days.”16. Various of Afghan pilgrims entering military Hercules C-130 aircraftASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVE: Mecca, Saudi Arabia - 8 January 2005++4:3++17. Mid of people sleeping in streets18. Mid of family with children waving at cameraASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVE: Mecca, Saudi Arabia - 2 February 2004++4:3++19. Pan from security officer to large crowd20. Wide zoom out of security police moving large crowd of pilgrimsASSOCIATED PRESSARCHIVE: Mecca - 12 September 2015++16:9++21. Various of collapsed craneAP PHOTOSARCHIVE: Mina, Saudi Arabia - 24 September 2015ADVERTISEMENT22. STILL of hundreds of pilgrims making their way towards Mecca for the 2015 Hajj23. STILL of Muslim pilgrims and rescuers gather round the dead and injured24. STILL of a Muslim pilgrim walks through the site after the deadly crush25. STILL of Injured pilgrims carried by stretcher to ambulanceASSOCIATED PRESSARCHIVE: Mina, Saudi Arabia - 21 July 2021++16:9++26. Various of pilgrims throwing stones at pillar symbolizing Satan27. Pilgrims praying after stoning SatanASSOCIATED PRESSARCHIVE: Mecca, Saudi Arabia - 22 July 2021++16:9++28. Various of pilgrims circling around Kaaba29. Pilgrims praying around KaabaLEADIN:Around a million Muslims are expected to attend this year’s Hajj pilgrimage between 7 and 12 July.All Muslims are expected to complete the rituals in Saudia Arabia at least once in their lifetime.STORYLINE:Hundreds of thousands of Muslims from all corners of the globe descend on Saudi Arabia each year for Hajj.The pilgrimage is considered a religious duty that all Muslims must complete at least once in their lifetime, if they are physically and financially able to do so.Hajj involves a number of different rituals including tawaf, where pilgrims circle the Kaaba seven times, and stoning the devil, where they throw pebbles at stone pillars.ADVERTISEMENTFor many Muslims, the Hajj, one of Islam’s five pillars, signals their spiritual rebirth and the burial of past transgressions.Scenes filmed decades ago still largely reflect what happens today.The pilgrims are clothed in the Ihram cloths (special clothes without finery or stitches, to equalise the rich and poor before God) and repeat the prayers.Here King Faisal of Saudi Arabia receives dignitaries arriving in Mecca for Hajj.The popular King was credited with stabilising and modernising his country, including the setting up of the first television broadcast, and also for his support of pan-Islamic causes.By 1977 television was delivering colour pictures from Hajj.Here pilgrims are seen arriving in Mecca, their feet in open sandals - another stipulation of the Hajj.The vast crowd gathers on their journey to come together in one unified prayer.But the crowds here are nothing compared to the throng around the Kabaa - the most sacred point in the Muslim world and the focus of all prayers.Today the government of Saudi Arabia issues visas for pilgrims wanting to make the Hajj pilgrimage - with a certain number allocated to each country.Getting to Hajj is not always easy, amid war and political unrest.Since the 1990 Gulf War, many Iraqis have complained of difficulties in performing Hajj.ADVERTISEMENTThese Iraqis are seen boarding coaches to make the four-day journey through the desert heat.In 2002 at Kabul airport, pilgrims from Afghanistan were desperate to honour their vow to perform Hajj.Many had been camped outside the airport for days in the hope of getting on a flight.The provincial government, under then interim leader Hamid Karzai, had taken 1,600 (US) dollars each from over 4,000 would-be pilgrims for a “Hajj package.”But many of the promised flights failed to materialise, leading to scenes of chaos at the airport.The government blamed bomb-damaged runways at the US-held airport.“I have been waiting for an aircraft for four days,” complained one patient pilgrim.In response, Britain sent four C-130 Hercules planes to ferry hundreds of pilgrims to Saudi Arabia.Controlling such vast crowds is a challenge, particularly around Mina for the symbolic and passionate “stoning of the devil” ritual.The 2015 Hajj was hit by double tragedy.First, a crane collapsed, killing more than 100 people.Then a stampede in Mina led to the deaths of 2,400 pilgrims.The most recent Hajj events have been blighted by the COVID-19 pandemic.In 2020, the authorities massively scaled it back, allowing fewer than 10,000 people to complete the pilgrimage.ADVERTISEMENTLast year, around 60,000 vaccinated pilgrims were allowed to take part. Face masks were a modern addition to the traditional robes worn for the rituals.This year, Saudia Arabia announced one million people would be given permission to attend.====Clients are reminded: (i) to check the terms of their licence agreements for use of content outside news programming and that further advice and assistance can be obtained from the AP Archive on: Tel +44 (0) 20 7482 7482 Email: info@aparchive.com. (ii) they should check with the applicable collecting society in their Territory regarding the clearance of any sound recording or performance included within the AP Television News service (iii) they have editorial responsibility for the use of all and any content included within the AP Television News service and for libel, privacy, compliance and third party rights applicable to their Territory.