1 of 4Australia's rugby coach Dave Rennie watches players during a training session on Friday, July 15, 2022. England will play Australia in a deciding third rugby test at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday. (AP Photo/Rick Rycroft)1 of 4Australia's rugby coach Dave Rennie watches players during a training session on Friday, July 15, 2022. England will play Australia in a deciding third rugby test at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday. (AP Photo/Rick Rycroft)SYDNEY (AP) — Fullback Jock Campbell has earned his first call-up and lock Rory Arnold has returned to Australia’s 36-man squad for a two-test tour of Argentina.Australia will play the Pumas in Rugby Championship tests on Aug. 6 in Mendoza and Aug. 13 in San Juan. The Argentinians are led by former Wallaby coach Michael Cheika.The Australians are aiming to rebound after losing back-to-back tests to England this month to surrender the three-match home series. Cheika oversaw the Wallabies between 2014-2019, including a run to the Rugby World Cup final in 2015. He became head coach of Argentina in March, replacing Mario Ledesma. The Pumas are coming off a home series victory over Scotland, sealed with last weekend’s 34-31 win in the decider.Campbell broke into the Wallabies squad after playing strongly at fullback for Australia’s second-string lineup in the recent Pacific Nations Cup.Campbell, who can also play on the wing, could get a chance to push for a test cap after Australia lost two fullbacks in the first two tests against England. Tom Banks broke his arm in Australia’s 30-28 win in the series-opener in Perth and Jordan Petaia was concussed in the third minute of second test in Brisbane, ruling him out of the remainder of the series.RugbyPumas lock Petti misses Rugby Championship squadPorter citing dismissed after yellow card in Irish win in NZRugby Australia condemns verbal abuse of England coach JonesNZ Rugby calls series loss to Ireland "not acceptable"ADVERTISEMENTAustralia coach Dave Rennie is allowed to bring in three overseas-based players and with star center Samu Kerevi missing the Argentina tour because he is playing Sevens rugby at the Commonwealth Games, Arnold was selected. The 27-test lock has been playing in France.“We were massively disappointed on the weekend but we’re only three matches into a 14-test season so we need to take the lessons on board quickly and learn from them,” Rennie said. “To be able to pick guys who have performed well in the Australia A program against quality international opposition is a positive.” ___Squad:Forwards: Rory Arnold, Pone Fa’amausili, Folau Fainga’a, Nick Frost, Matt Gibbon, Michael Hooper (captain), Jed Holloway, Rob Leota, Lachlan Lonergan, Fraser McReight, Matt Philip, David Porecki, Pete Samu, Scott Sio, James Slipper, Darcy Swain, Taniela Tupou, Rob Valetini, Harry WilsonBacks: Jock Campbell, Quade Cooper, Lalakai Foketi, Jake Gordon, Reece Hodge, Len Ikitau, Marika Koroibete, Noah Lolesio, Tate McDermott, James O’Connor, Hunter Paisami, Jordan Petaia, Irae Simone, Suliasi Vunivalu, Nic White, Tom Wright___More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports