NEW YORK (AP) — Kole Calhoun homered twice and drove in four runs, Martín Pérez won his seventh straight decision and the Texas Rangers beat the New York Mets 7-3 on Saturday.Calhoun hit a three-run shot off spot starter Trevor Williams in the second inning and third-year catcher Jonah Heim followed with his career-high 11th home run to give the Rangers a 4-2 lead. Starling Marte launched an early two-run homer and Eduardo Escobar also went deep against Pérez (7-2), who had given up only two long balls in 15 starts covering 93 1/3 innings coming in. But the 31-year-old lefty yielded nothing else, permitting seven hits and two walks with four strikeouts in 6 2/3 innings. He is 7-0 in his last 11 starts, making a strong bid for his first All-Star selection this month. Pérez is unbeaten in his last 14 starts — a career best. His seven-game winning streak matches a career high set in 2017. Texas has won 11 of his past 12 outings.ADVERTISEMENTWilliams (1-5) went 3 2/3 innings, allowing five runs and five hits in his seventh start of the year. TWINS 4, ORIOLES 3MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Jorge Polanco hit a tying homer and Jose Miranda delivered a game-ending single as Minnesota again rallied for two runs in the bottom of the ninth inning.MLBCruz gets 12th RBI in 13 games, Bucs top Brewers 7-4Maldonado hits 2 of 5 Houston homers in 9-1 win over AngelsCubs pitcher Alec Mills exits with back injury vs. Red SoxStrider strikes out 11, Riley homers as Braves beat Reds 4-1A day after Byron Buxton hit a two-run homer in the ninth off Jorge López for a 3-2 victory, Minnesota came back once more. Polanco began the ninth with a home run against López (4-4) that made it 3-all. Alex Kirilloff doubled with one out, Gary Sánchez singled and Miranda followed with a single to win it.Miranda entered the game in the top of the ninth at third base after Gio Urshela was pulled for a pinch-runner in the eighth.Minnesota starter Sonny Gray pitched five innings, allowing three runs on six hits and three walks. Jharel Cotton pitched three scoreless innings in relief and Emilio Pagán (4-4) worked the ninth.Anthony Santander hit his 15th home run for Baltimore. Orioles star Trey Mancini was back in the lineup after being limited to pinch-hitting duties on Friday with a right hand injury and went 1 for 3. Nick Gordon hit a solo home run in the seventh, cutting the Twins’ deficit to 3-1.MARLINS 5, NATIONALS 3WASHINGTON (AP) — Jesús Aguilar hit a two-run home run in the first inning and scored in the seventh, Daniel Castano picked up his first win of the season and Miami continued its domination of Washington.The Marlins have won 10 of 11 games against the Nationals in this season, but are 26-39 against everyone else.Miami’s latest win came in a sloppy game that included four throwing errors and a couple of wild pitches. Washington’s Juan Soto also provided some holiday weekend fireworks with his 15th home run of the season.Soto’s homer was the only earned run charged to Castano (1-1), who was solid in striking out three and allowing four hits in five-plus innings. He and the Marlins bullpen got run support thanks to Aguilar’s 2 for 5 performance, plus two runs driven in by Avisaíl García and another on a sacrifice fly by Miguel Rojas.ADVERTISEMENTSecond baseman Jon Berti also stole his major league-leading 25th base of the season, and designated hitter Garrett Cooper hit his 20th double. Tanner Scott pitched the ninth to pick up his ninth save of the year.Nationals starter Jackson Tetreault (2-2) struggled with his command in giving up four earned runs on four hits and five walks in four innings. YANKEES 13, GUARDIANS 4CLEVELAND (AP) — Gerrit Cole brushed off giving up back-to-back home runs and worked six strong innings, leading New York past Cleveland in the first game of a split doubleheader.Cole (7-2) was tagged for consecutive homers in the second inning by Josh Naylor and Franmil Reyes before settling in. The right-hander allowed Cleveland just one other hit and struck out six.Matt Carpenter homered twice — his second was off utilityman Ernie Clement in the ninth — and had four RBIs. DJ LeMahieu added a solo shot off rookie Kirk McCarty (0-2) for the Yankees.Jose Trevino also connected off Clement, giving New York a major league-leading 131 home runs.In winning 24 of its last 30 games, New York improved to 57-21, tying the 2001 Seattle Mariners for the second-best start after 78 games since 1930. Only the 1998 Yankees (58-20) were better.TIGERS 4, ROYALS 3DETROIT (AP) — Victor Reyes and Riley Greene hit back-to-back homers in the ninth inning to lift Detroit.ADVERTISEMENTWith one out in the ninth, Reyes tied the game off Royals reliever Joel Payamps (2-2). It was the first homer allowed by Payamps in 26 1/3 innings this season. Greene followed with the first homer of his career.Tigers reliever Joe Jimenez (3-0) pitched a perfect ninth and earned the win as Detroit’s pitchers retired the last 17 batters they faced.The Royals took a 2-0 lead on Hunter Dozier’s bases-loaded double in the first inning. In the bottom half of the winning, Greene led off with a triple and scored on Javy Baez’s sacrifice fly.Kansas City made it 3-1 in the fourth on Whit Merrifield’s RBI single.MARINERS 2, ATHLETICS 1SEATTLE (AP) — Pinch-hitter Justin Upton homered to tie it in the eighth inning and Abraham Toro singled home the winning run in the ninth to lift Seattle.The Mariners loaded the bases with no outs in the ninth when Lou Trivino (1-6) walked Eugenio Suarez, Carlos Santana singled and Cal Raleigh reached on shortstop Nick Allen’s error.Toro then singled home pinch-runner Marcus Wilson for the victory.Diego Castillo (6-1) got the win.Upton sent the first pitch he saw from A’s reliever AJ Puk into Edgar’s Cantina in left field to tie it at 1. It was his first homer of the season and the 325th of his career.ADVERTISEMENTWHITE SOX 5, GIANTS 3SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Gavin Sheets doubled twice and drove in two runs, and Chicago held on to beat San Francisco.Dylan Cease allowed one run in five innings for his third consecutive win. The major league leader in strikeouts per nine innings, Cease (7-3) had only four against San Francisco — his fewest since May 24 — and overcame LaMonte Wade Jr.’s home run leading off the first to improve to 4-1 in seven road starts.Tanner Banks followed Cease with two scoreless innings. Joe Kelly retired three hitters and Kendall Graveman pitched the ninth for his fifth save.Tim Anderson added two hits for Chicago. Yoán Moncada and Leury García each drove in runs as the White Sox beat the Giants for the 10th time in 12 games.San Francisco scored a run in the ninth and had the tying runners on base with two outs before Graveman got Mike Yastrzemski to ground out.Logan Webb (7-3) allowed six hits and five runs (three earned) in six innings. He struck out five and walked one.BRAVES 4, REDS 1CINCINNATI (AP) — Spencer Strider allowed one hit over six innings and matched a career high with 11 strikeouts, and Austin Riley homered for the second straight game and drove in two runs to lead Atlanta.ADVERTISEMENTStrider (4-2) didn’t allow a hit until there were two outs in the fifth inning when Nick Senzel’s single drove in Matt Reynolds, who entered the game when Kyle Farmer was hit by a pitch.A.J. Minter pitched the seventh and Jesse Chavez the eighth before Will Smith pitched the ninth for his fourth save. The Braves, in second place in the NL East behind the Mets, moved a season-high 13 games over .500 with their fourth win in five games and are 2 1/2 games behind New York.The loss was Cincinnati’s fourth straight overall and 10th straight at home, the team’s longest home losing streak since an 11-game skid in 1986 at Riverfront Stadium. Tyler Mahle (3-7) set a season high with four walks, including Harris II with the bases loaded in the fourth to force in Atlanta’s second run. Mahle allowed five hits and two runs with five strikeouts. He also hit a batter.ASTROS 9, ANGELS 1HOUSTON (AP) — Martín Maldonado homered twice and Jose Altuve, Kyle Tucker and Chas McCormick added a home run each as Houston built a big lead early and didn’t let up. The Astros followed up their 8-1 win in the opener with another lopsided victory to extend their winning streak to five games. Houston starter José Urquidy (7-3) yielded two hits and a run with eight strikeouts in six innings to improve the team’s starters to 7-0 in the last nine games. The Astros were already up 3-0 when Maldonado, who had just one hit in his previous four games, connected off Patrick Sandoval (3-3) to start the second inning. In the sixth, Maldonado hit the first pitch from Andrew Wantz over the wall in straightaway center field to make it 6-1 for his fourth career multi-homer game. Four pitches later, Altuve gave Houston back-to-back homers when he hit an opposite field shot to the seats in right field. Taylor Ward hit a solo home run in the third for the Angels, who continue to struggle offensively. Mike Trout went 0 for 4 with four strikeouts and is 0 for 7 with seven strikeouts in this series. RAYS 6, BLUE JAYS 2TORONTO (AP) — Shane McClanahan allowed one run in seven innings, lowering his AL-leading ERA to 1.74, Wander Franco and Isaac Paredes hit solo home runs, and Tampa Bay snapped a season-high four-game losing streak in Game 1 of a doubleheader.Blue Jays right-hander Kevin Gausman left after he was hit in the right ankle by Franco’s 100 mph line drive in the second. X-rays were negative. The Blue Jays said Gausman had a right ankle contusion.McClanahan (9-3) allowed three hits, walked one and struck out 10, including five of the final six batters he faced. The left-hander has not allowed more than one earned run in nine of his past 10 starts.Javy Guerra got three outs and Phoenix Sanders finished as the Rays avoided their longest losing streak in a year, a five-game slump from June 27 to July 3, 2021.Right-hander Casey Lawrence, who joined the Blue Jays as the 27th man Saturday, replaced Gausman in the third. Lawrence (0-1) allowed six runs and seven hits in 5 2/3 innings.PIRATES 7, BREWERS 4PITTSBURGH (AP) — Oneil Cruz got his 12th RBI in 13 games this season to help Pittsburgh bounce back from a blowout loss. The 23-year-old prospect put the Pirates up 4-1 with two outs in the fourth on a 392-foot solo blast to right with a 112.3 mph exit velocity that chased Brewers starter Aaron Ashby (1-6). It was Cruz’s third homer of the year. He has at least one RBI in eight games since being recalled from Triple-A Indianapolis on June 20, and at least one in each of his first nine games at PNC Park.Cruz also used his glove to help Pirates right-hander Bryse Wilson (1-4) pick up his first win since Sept. 18, 2021. The shortstop stretched every bit of his 6-foot-7 frame to snag a line drive from Christian Yelich with two men in scoring position before trotting to third, finishing a double play to end the second inning. Wilson was called up from Triple-A Indianapolis to make the start, and allowed two runs and eight hits with four strikeouts over six innings.