PHOENIX (AP) — Daulton Varsho hit a three-run homer in the eighth inning after Josh Rojas caused problems with his speed, and the Arizona Diamondbacks extended the San Francisco Giants’ losing streak to six games with a 6-2 win Tuesday night.Rojas led off the eighth with a two-strike bunt single — the second in the majors by a position player since 2016 — and distracted reliever Dominic Leone (3-1) at first base, drawing several pickoff throws. Rojas went to third on Cooper Hummel’s single and scored the tying run on a wild pitch.Leone walked the next two batters to load the bases and Buddy Kennedy hit a go-ahead sacrifice fly off Camilo Doval. Varsho followed with his 12th homer of the season to the pool deck in right-center, all but sealing the Diamondbacks’ first series win against their NL West rivals since May 2019. Mark Melancon worked a perfect ninth to close it out.The Giants took a 2-1 lead in the seventh with help from a replay review.ADVERTISEMENTYermin Mercedes led off the inning with a walk and moved to second on a passed ball by Arizona catcher Carson Kelly.Two outs later, Austin Wynns sent a slicing ball toward the left-field foul line off Caleb Smith (1-1) that Hummel tried to catch while sliding. The ball hit Hummel in the stomach and trickled away as Mercedes rounded third.MLBDodgers beat Rockies 5-2, stretch NL West lead to 5 1/2Kirilloff hits 2 homers as Twins pound White Sox 8-2Cubs' Hendricks leaves after 3 innings due to sore shoulderScherzer stout in return, but Mets fall to Reds in 9th, 1-0The play was initially ruled a foul ball, but was deemed fair after a lengthy review. The umpires sent Mercedes home and Wynns to first with an RBI single.Joc Pederson gave San Francisco a 1-0 lead with a sacrifice fly in the fourth. Geraldo Perdomo tied it with an RBI single in the fifth.DIAMONDBACKS MOVESArizona designated RHP J.B. Wendelken for assignment after he allowed five runs over two innings in his last two appearances. He went 2-1 with a 5.28 ERA in 29 games this season. The Diamondbacks also claimed INF Sergio Alcántara off waivers from San Diego. TRAINER’S ROOMGiants: SS Brandon Crawford (left knee inflammation) returned to the lineup after being activated from the 10-day injured list. ... LHP Jose Alvarez (lower back tightness) returned from his rehab assignment and was reinstated from the 15-day injured list. ... C Curt Casali was placed on the 10-day injured list with a right oblique strain after leaving Monday’s game in the seventh inning. ... INF Donovan Walton was optioned to Triple-A Sacramento. Diamondbacks: RHP Ian Kennedy has been put on blood thinners after a small blood clot was discovered in his right calf. Kennedy was placed on the 15-day injured list Monday after leaving Sunday’s game against Colorado with calf pain. Arizona manager Torey Lovullo said Kennedy’s blood clot could be related to the altitude in Denver.UP NEXTGiants RHP Alex Cobb (3-3, 4.95 ERA) has not allowed an earned run in 9 1/3 innings heading into Wednesday’s start against Arizona RHP Merrill Kelly (7-5, 3.46).___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/mlb and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports