WIMBLEDON, England (AP) — The Latest from Wimbledon (all times local):___8 p.m.Former tennis player Sue Barker is stepping down from her role working as a commentator and presenter at Wimbledon for the BBC.Barker won the French Open title in 1976 and has spent the last three decades working for the British broadcaster at the All England Club. For years, she has been the person interviewing the champions and runners-up on Centre Court after the final.Barker’s final interviewees were Novak Djokovic and Nick Kyrgios. Djokovic won his seventh Wimbledon title by beating Kyrgios 4-6, 6-3, 6-4, 7-6 (3).“It’s been an absolute privilege,” Barker said. “I’ve loved it. Thirty amazing years.”___7:20 p.m.Czech duo Barbora Krejcikova and Katerina Siniakova won their second Wimbledon doubles title by beating top-seeded Elise Mertens and Zhang Shuai 6-2, 6-4.The second-seeded Krejcikova and Siniakova broke at love in the final game, setting up match point after a 38-stroke rally and converting it when Zhang netted a forehand.ADVERTISEMENTIt is their fifth Grand Slam title as a pair, having won Wimbledon in 2018, the French Open in 2018 and 2021, and the Australian Open this year.Mertens won the women’s doubles title at Wimbledon last year with Hsieh Su-wei and has three Grand Slam titles. Zhang has two but was looking for her first at Wimbledon.WimbledonDjokovic tops Kyrgios for 7th Wimbledon, 21st Slam trophyWimbledon glance: Djokovic wins 21st major, beats KyrgiosKyrgios showed he belonged on Slam stage in Wimbledon lossKunieda finally gets wheelchair singles title at Wimbledon___6 p.m.Yui Kamiji of Japan and Dana Mathewson of the United States won the women’s wheelchair doubles title at Wimbledon.The pair beat the top-seeded Dutch team of Diede de Groot and Aniek van Koot 6-1, 7-5 on No. 3 Court.De Groot defeated Kamiji in the singles final on Saturday.___5:13 p.m.Novak Djokovic has won his seventh Wimbledon title after coming from a set down to beat Nick Kyrgios 4-6, 6-3, 6-4, 7-6 (3) in the men’s final.Djokovic raced out to a 6-1 lead in the fourth-set tiebreaker and converted his third match point when Kyrgios netted a backhand.It is Djokovic’s 21st Grand Slam title overall, putting him one behind record-holder Rafael Nadal.Only Roger Federer has won more Wimbledon titles, with eight.Kyrgios was playing in his first Grand Slam final.___4:30 p.m.A protestor who shouted “Where is Peng Shuai?” and held up a sign with the same message was forcefully taken out of the stands at Centre Court during the men’s final at Wimbledon.Activist Drew Pavlou, who was also removed from the grounds at the Australian Open this year, says he held up the sign and shouted during a stop in play but then was grabbed by security guards and thrown to the ground.He says he was taken to a public area outside the stadium and escorted off the grounds.Peng is a retired professional tennis player from China who last year accused a former high-ranking member of the country’s ruling Communist Party of sexual assault. She has made very few public appearances since then.The All England Club did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Four separate activists wearing “Where is Peng Shuai?” T-shirts were stopped by security at Wimbledon on Monday and had their bags searched.ADVERTISEMENT___4:10 p.m.Novak Djokovic has won the third set of the men’s Wimbledon final to take a 2-1 lead against Nick Kyrgios.Djokovic leads 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 and is one set away from his seventh Wimbledon title.At 4-4 in the third set, Kyrgios double-faulted to set up break point, then netted a backhand to hand Djokovic the break. ___3:35 p.m.Mili Poljicak became the first Croatian player to win a junior Wimbledon title after defeating American player Michael Zheng 7-6 (2), 7-6 (3) in the boys’ final.The third-seeded Poljicak came from a break down in both sets to win his first junior Grand Slam title.Zheng beat Poljicak in three sets in the first round of this year’s French Open and was trying to become the second straight American to win the Wimbledon boys’ title. Samir Banerjee won last year. Poljicak lost to Banerjee in last year’s quarterfinals.___3:20 p.m.Novak Djokovic has won the second set of the men’s Wimbledon final against Nick Kyrgios to level the match at one set apiece.Djokovic won the set 6-3 after breaking at love for a 3-1 lead and saved four break points in the final game. Kyrgios won the first set 6-4. Djokovic is looking for a seventh Wimbledon title and 21st Grand Slam title overall. Kyrgios is playing his first career Grand Slam final.ADVERTISEMENT___2:50 p.m.Shingo Kunieda finally won his first Wimbledon title to complete a career Grand Slam in men’s wheelchair singles.The 38-year-old Japanese player defeated Alfie Hewett of Britain 4-6, 7-5, 7-6 (10-5). It is Kunieda’s 28th Grand Slam title overall but he had only reached one Wimbledon final in four previous appearances, finishing as runner-up in 2019.He is the first men’s wheelchair player to complete a career Grand Slam, and now holds all four major titles at the same time after winning this year’s Australian Open and French Open, as well as last year’s U.S. Open.Hewett was looking for his sixth Grand Slam title and first at Wimbledon. He also lost in the final to Kunieda at last year’s U.S. Open and this year’s Australian Open. ___2:40 p.m.Nick Kyrgios has won the first set 6-4 against Novak Djokovic in the men’s singles final at Wimbledon.Kyrgios broke for a 3-2 lead when Djokovic double-faulted on break point. He converted his second set point with an ace. The Australian is playing his first career Grand Slam final. Djokovic is looking for a seventh Wimbledon title and 21st Grand Slam title overall.___2:10 p.m.The men’s final at Wimbledon between Novak Djokovic and Nick Kyrgios has started on Centre Court.ADVERTISEMENTDjokovic is trying to win a seventh title at the All England Club and a 21st Grand Slam singles title overall. Kyrgios is playing in his first major final.___1 p.m.Novak Djokovic will play for his seventh Wimbledon title and 21st Grand Slam singles title overall against Nick Kyrgios on Centre Court.Djokovic has won the last three championships at the All England Club. Kyrgios is playing in a major tennis final for the first time in his career.Kyrgios is 2-0 against Djokovic but both of those matches were in 2017.The women’s doubles final will be on Centre Court following the men’s singles match. Top-seeded Elise Mertens and Zhang Shuai will face second-seeded Barbora Krejcikova and Katerina Siniakova.___More AP Wimbledon coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/wimbledon and https://apnews.com/hub/tennis and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports