Nonfiction 1. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)2. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 3. Scars and Stripes by Tim Kennedy and Nick Palmisciano, narrated by Tim Kennedy (Simon & Schuster Audio)4. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)5. Finding Me by Viola Davis, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)6. How Are You, Really? by Jenna Kutcher, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)7. I’d Like to Play Alone, Please by Tom Segura, narrated by the author (Grand Central Publishing)8. Meditations by Marcus Aurelius, George Long - translator, and Duncan Steen - translator, narrated by Duncan Steen (Naxos AudioBooks)9. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)10. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio)ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. He Who Fights with Monsters 6 by Shirtaloon and Travis Deverell, narrated by Heath Miller (Podium Audio)2. Where the Crawdads Sing by Delia Owens, narrated by Cassandra Campbell (Penguin Audio)3. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)EntertainmentA celebrity volcanologist couple spotlighted in new docReview: In 'Fire of Love,' the mysterious alchemy of romanceReview: 'Thor: Love and Thunder' is pure bonkers filmmakingNew this week: 'The Sea Beast,' early Elton John, 'Maggie'4. When It Falls Apart by Catherine Bybee, narrated by Devon Sorvari (Brilliance Audio)5. Beyond the Moonlit Sea by Julianne MacLean, narrated by Amanda Leigh Cobb, Graham Halstead and Reba Buhr (Brilliance Audio)6. The Summer I Turned Pretty by Jenny Han, narrated by Lola Tung (Recorded Books)7. The Hotel Nantucket by Elin Hilderbrand, narrated by Erin Bennett (Little, Brown & Company)8. Star Wars: Shadow of the Sith by Adam Christopher, narrated by William DeMeritt (Random House Audio)9. Verity by Colleen Hoover, performed by Vanessa Johansson and Amy Landon (Audible Studios)10. The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo by Taylor Jenkins Reid, narrated by Alma Cuervo, Julia Whelan and Robin Miles (Simon & Schuster Audio)