NEWARK, N.J. (AP) — The New Jersey Devils have named their first female assistant general manager, making Kate Madigan the sixth woman to hold the title in the NHL.General Manager Tom Fitzgerald announced the promotion Wednesday, the day before the NHL draft. “Kate has been an incredibly valuable resource to not only me, but to our entire hockey operations leadership staff, particularly over the past three years, as part of key hockey decisions,” Fitzgerald said. “This promotion is reflective of the duties and responsibilities that Kate has assumed within our organization during that time.“Her diligence, work ethic, attention to detail, ability to communicate with all staff, strategy and vision are qualities that I look for in our leadership,” he added.The NHL has seen several women promoted to the assistant general manager’s role in the last month, with Dr. Hayley Wickenheiser getting the job in Toronto this week and Meghan Hunter promoted in Chicago last month.ADVERTISEMENTThe Vancouver Canucks have two women serving as assistant general managers, Emilie Castonguay and Cammi Granato. Angela Gorgone became the first female assistant GM when the Anaheim Ducks hired her in 1996.Madigan had been serving as the team’s executive director of hockey management/operations. The 30-year-old also worked two years in the video/player information operation before being promoted to director of pro scouting operations in 2021. During the pandemic, her job in management/operations overlapped with her role in scouting.NHLNY firm pays $10K state ethics penalty to settle CT caseNHL Draft: Teams weigh risks of selecting Russian prospectsAvs start moves toward defending title, bring back CoglianoSharks hire Mike Grier as NHL's first Black GMShe called the promotion an exciting opportunity.“I look forward to working with this group to make the New Jersey Devils better, each day, and bring back the consistent success our fans expect and deserve,” she said. “I’m excited for the future of this team, not only now, but for what it will be.” Madigan will serve as part of the small group that Fitzgerald will lean on for key input, strategy and decision-making, which includes roster construction at the pro and amateur levels, transactions, hockey personnel decisions, team operations, facilities management, budget, and as part of the team’s management travel party. Madigan holds a master’s in accounting and a bachelor’s in business administration from Northeastern University. She worked two years as an accountant for Deloitte before switching careers.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports