JERUSALEM (AP) — The Latest on U.S. President Joe Biden’s trip to the Mideast (all times local):JERUSALEM -- President Joe Biden says he is working to promote Israel’s burgeoning ties with Arab partners in the Middle East. The U.S. president spoke after meeting Israel’s interim prime minister, Yair Lapid, in Jerusalem on Thursday.“I talked about how important it was from my perspective for Israel to be totally integrated in the region,” Biden said.Under the Trump administration, Israel struck diplomatic deals with four Arab countries known as the Abraham Accords.Biden is hoping to build on those fledgling ties as he heads to Saudi Arabia to meet with Gulf Arab partners this weekend. The ties are largely based on shared concerns about Iran’s nuclear program and military activities across the region.Lapid described Biden’s trip to Saudi Arabia as “extremely important to Israel.”Biden also appeared to give a boost to Lapid, who hopes to win a full term in November elections. “We had a good beginning of a long, God willing, relationship,” Biden said.ADVERTISEMENT—-HERE’S WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING:
Israeli politics a backdrop to Biden’s visit to the Mideast

Biden to ping through Israel’s iconic spots on Mideast tour
Joe BidenBiden, Lapid discuss Iran, integrating Israel in Middle EastTrump, Hogan fight emerges in Maryland's GOP governor's raceMan charged with rape of girl, 10, who traveled for abortionBurn pits legislation nears finish line with House approval
Amid COVID worries, fist bumps for Biden — with exceptions

Six things to watch during Biden’s trip to the Middle East

With Biden, Palestinians seeking freedom get permits instead
___JERUSALEM — The United Arab Emirates is investing $2 billion to launch food processing centers across India that will use climate-smart technologies to help reduce waste and conserve fresh water.The initiative was announced on Thursday ahead of the first virtual leaders’ meeting of I2U2 — a new grouping of Israel, India, United States and UAE — that is looking to spur joint investments in water, energy, transportation, food security, and more.India will provide land for the project. U.S. and Israeli private firms are invited to lend their expertise to the project that the group said will help maximize crop yields. The group has set tackling food insecurity in South and Middle East as a major goal.President Joe Biden is taking part the video meeting from Israel, where he is in the second day of a whirlwind visit to the Middle East. ——JERUSALEM — U.S. President Joe Biden has begun a one-on-one meeting in Jerusalem with Israel’s prime minister, Yair Lapid.Their talks are the centerpiece of a 48-hour visit by the U.S. president aimed at strengthening already tight relations between the two countries.The leaders are expected to sign a joint declaration emphasizing military cooperation as well as their commitment to preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.The commitments to Israel could hold important symbolic importance ahead of Biden’s meeting this weekend with Arab leaders in Saudi Arabia as he seeks to strengthen a regionwide alliance against Iran.Thursday’s meeting also provides a boost to Lapid, who is Israel’s interim prime minister until elections in November. Lapid’s main opponent is the former prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and his joint appearance his Biden could help burnish his credentials as a statesman and leader.