MONTERREY, Mexico (AP) — Julie Grosso scored a pair of goals and Canada went on to rout Trinidad and Tobago 6-0 Tuesday night in a group stage match at the CONCACF W Championship. The W Championship serves as qualifying for next summer’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand. Christine Sinclair scored her 190th career goal, an ongoing international record among women and men. After Sinclair’s header in the 27th minute, Grosso scored in the 67th and 79th — her first two goals with the Canadian national team. Jessie Fleming, who missed a penalty in the opening half, scored in the 84th. Two minutes later Janine Beckie scored. Jordyn Huitema added a final goal for Canada in stoppage time.Canada, which won the gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics, and Trinidad and Tobago are in Group B at the W Championship. Earlier in the evening, Rocky Rodriguez scored early and Costa Rica went on to defeat Panama 3-0. ADVERTISEMENTRodriguez, who plays with Sinclair and Beckie for the Portland Thorns in the National Women’s Soccer League, scored on a header in the sixth minute. Maria Paula Salas scored in the 24th. Katherine Alvarado converted on a penalty for Costa Rica in the 60th minute. Costa Rica has been to the World Cup just once before, in 2015. Panama has never qualified for international soccer’s most prestigious event. SoccerAmerican midfielder Adams joins Leeds, reunites with MarschAtlético signs Axel Witsel to add experience to its midfieldDortmund signs Ajax striker Haller to replace HaalandSpain-born Williams to play for Ghana national teamEight teams have been divided into two groups for the tournament. The top two finishers in each group earn spots in the 2023 World Cup. The third-place finishers will go on to a 10-team intercontinental playoff in February in New Zealand.The winner of the tournament will also earn one of the region’s spots in the 2024 Olympics. The United States, Mexico, Jamaica and Haiti are in Group A. The United States defeated Haiti 3-0 to open the tournament on Monday, while Jamaica downed Mexico 1-0. ___More AP soccer: https://apnews.com/hub/soccer and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports