LOS ANGELES (AP) — Nicholas Braun of “Succession” was pacing on the street around Soho in Manhattan, unable to stop moving and feeling “a little manic.” “Squid Game” creator Hwang Dong-hyuk was hunkering down at an island retreat to write season 2, but took a break for a bottle of Champagne. Jane Lynch was about to get sushi before performing on Broadway in a few hours. Connie Britton was getting her hair colored. They and many others expressed joy after being nominated for Emmys. Some reactions:___  “Oh my God, it’s the job of a lifetime, the people that I get to work with. You’re just around so much talent, and we’ve really got a family thing going. Just so many special actors who know their characters like the back of their hands. When I’m in a scene, I’m also a fan and I’m like, ‘Oh my God, they’re killing it right now!’ So it’s really the greatest gig, and I’m so happy for everybody else getting their props.” — Nicholas Braun of “Succession,” nominated for best supporting actor in a drama, one of a leading 25 nominations for the series. ADVERTISEMENT___“I have already drunk a bottle of Champagne ... I am in a grueling process of writing Season 2. These nominations add to the pressure but as much as the pressure increases, I would say that my motivation also increases, because I want to deliver on the expectations.” — “Squid Game” creator Hwang Dong-hyuk, speaking from Jeju island in South Korea, where he is writing the next season, after his show became the first non-English language series to vie for television’s top honor. It earned a best drama nomination and 13 other bids.Emmy AwardsEmmy surprises: 'Squid Game,' Dave Chappelle, 'This Is Us''Succession' tops Emmy nominations, 'Squid Game' also scoresPartial list of Emmy Award nominees'Squid Game' star Lee Jung-jae debuts as director in Cannes___“We are a nauseatingly happy bunch! Because there is nobody, including Jason (Sudeikis), that thinks they’re more important in any scene than anyone else. And it has to come from him. He shines the light so universally away from himself. ... It’s really, really healthy and supportive. And honestly, if you could have seen our WhatsApp group over the last two hours, it honestly is nauseating. We dig each other, we dig each other to death. And I will struggle to leave this group of players. I really will.” — Hannah Waddingham on her ”Ted Lasso” ensemble. Waddingham was nominated again for the award she won last year, best supporting actress in a comedy.___“My family sacrificed a lot for me to pursue my dreams. There’s always that fear in the back of your mind: ‘Did they sacrifice and give up too much? Am I ever going to achieve this dream that everyone has for me and I have?’ This makes me feel like this and everything was worth it.” — Sydney Sweeney, nominated for best supporting actress in a drama series for “Euphoria.”___“We came out of ‘Breaking Bad’ being a great show. It’s one of the best ever on TV. You always want to try to do right by that show — do right by your legacy. It feels like we’re continuing to fulfill the hope that people had for us to keep that level of excellence. I’m following (Bryan) Cranston and these great actors who set a really high water mark.” — Bob Odenkirk, nominated for best actor in a drama for “Better Call Saul.”ADVERTISEMENT___“I like to find the humor in everything, and I feel like (in) the best drama, you have to kind of have the counterbalance of humor in order to really point out the drama. But it was so fun to kind of go at it from the opposite direction. ... For me, it was about, okay, I have to find the gravitas and I have to find the groundedness and the reality. It was really fun and wonderful to be able to do that with such a wonderful group of actors who were just all so excellent.” — Connie Britton of “The White Lotus,” nominated for best supporting actress, limited series or TV movie.___“Holy fxxxing xxxx, this is fxxxing insane! For this to happen once is magic, but twice is a miracle. ... I don’t know what to say. I’m really trying to learn to swear less. Golly gee. Is that better? Ah, who the fxxx am I kidding, thank you to the Academy.” — Brett Goldstein of “Ted Lasso” in an email message after being nominated for best supporting actor in a comedy for the second successive year. —-“It’s a pretty happy day! And I’m going to have some sushi and that’s going to make it a GREAT day. ... It was just such a joy to work with Steve (Martin). We were like twins. ... It’s crazy. I mean, I certainly didn’t expect this (nomination.) It’s just the coolest thing. — Jane Lynch from “Only Murders in the Building,” nominated for guest actress in a comedy series.ADVERTISEMENT___“You never know if people are going to watch what you make so the entire experience of making a movie or show exists in its own creative and crazy bubble. ‘The Dropout’ was the most intense and surprisingly fun time, and for it to be appreciated in this way sweetens the whole experience for me. — Amanda Seyfried of “The Dropout,” nominated for best actress in a limited series or TV movie, in a statement.___“Like most character actors, I always think my last job will be my last ever acting job. Getting this very sweet nomination just makes me feel like at least I could be going out on a positive note if I never get an acting job. At least I’m not leaving the business with people being like ‘We hate you.’” — Comedian Martha Kelly, nominated for guest actress in a drama for her appearance in “Euphoria.”___“I came at this with so much passion and the desire to reveal myself and challenge behavior in how women are treated. I greatly admire and desperately wanted to do justice for Pamela Anderson. I had no choice but to work harder than ever. I gave everything into it.” — Lily James, nominated for best actress in a limited series or TV movie for “Pam & Tommy.”ADVERTISEMENT___“Nicole Kidman is going to be there. Nicole Kidman might be there. And I’m going to see Nicole Kidman at the Emmys. What am I going to do when I meet Nicole? I don’t know. But please leave a comment (with) what I should do when I meet Nicole Kidman, because that’s what the Emmys means to me ... I’ve kind of been in shock for the last couple of hours. I’ve been in shock.”— Lizzo, nominated for “Lizzo’s Watch Out for the Big Grrrls” in the outstanding competition show category, on Instagram Live.___For more on this year’s Emmy Awards, visit: www.apnews.com/EmmyAwards