MILWAUKEE (AP) — Brandon Woodruff pitched six strong innings, Hunter Renfroe hit a three-run homer and the Milwaukee Brewers beat the Colorado Rockies 9-4 on Saturday night.Woodruff (8-3) improved to 3-0 with a 2.20 ERA in five starts since coming off the injured list June 27. He had a right ankle sprain and Raynaud’s Syndrome, which affected his pitching fingers. “Honestly, getting the breaking stuff over early in the count was also big,” Woodruff said. “They’re tough to strike out.”The right-hander allowed a run on six hits, struck out eight and walked one to help the Brewers extend their winning streak against the Rockies to a franchise-best seven games.Colorado has not won in Milwaukee since an 11-6 victory on May 2, 2019.Renfroe and the Brewers finally got to Rockies starter and former teammate José Ureña (1-2) in the fourth. Andrew McCutchen walked and Kolten Wong singled before Renfroe crushed a 98 mph sinker 424 feet to left-center. ADVERTISEMENT“The pitch he threw me was a good pitch,” Renfroe said. “He had good stuff tonight.”The Rockies had just turned a crisp double play, but a walk and a base hit set the table for Renfroe’s 15th home run of the season.“He walked McCutchen with two outs after a double play. Ill-advised,” Rockies manager Bud Black said. “Then a base hit by Wong and the three-run homer on a decent pitch. It was a pitcher’s pitch. Renfroe’s got power, golfed it out of the ballpark. Strong guy.”MLBYankees play the Orioles after Judge's 4-hit gameDodgers play the Giants on home winning streakRoyals and Rays play, winner takes 3-game seriesAngels look to break 6-game road slide, play the BravesRenfroe also hit a two-run homer in the 10th inning Friday night that tied the game at 5.“I’m seeing the ball real well right now,” he said. “That’s a big part of it.”Woodruff liked the power display Renfroe is putting on.“He’s always had that type of power,” Woodruff said. “It’s awesome to see him hit those balls so far.”Milwaukee broke it open with five runs in the sixth.Wong chased Ureña with an RBI single. Renfroe greeted Jhoulys Chacín with a slow roller to third that went for an infield single to load the bases. Victor Caratini smacked a two-run double, and Renfroe scored on a wild pitch. Christain Yelich added a run-scoring single.“Just couldn’t string enough pitches together through the sixth inning when he tried to pick up José,” Black said of Chacín’s tough outing.Tyrone Taylor tacked on an RBI single for Milwaukee in the eighth.Ureña struck out a season-high five, including Yelich three times, but came up short in his bid for consecutive wins in his third start for the Rockies. He allowed five hits over six innings and beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 2-0 in his previous outing on July 16.Ureña was designated for assignment by the Brewers on May 9 after four relief appearances. The Rockies signed him to a minor league deal May 16 and then selected his contract from Triple-A Albuquerque on July 6. C.J. Cron led off the Colorado ninth with his team-leading 22nd home run, off Connor Sadzeck. Yonathan Daza hit his first home run of the season, a two-run shot.Brendan Rodgers had an RBI single for the Rockies in the first.TRAINER’S ROOMRockies: RHP Antonio Senzatela was nailed by Yelich’s line drive in the first inning Friday. Senzatela recovered and threw to first base for the out. After an injury delay, he stayed in the game. “He’s got a big bruise,” Black said. “You don’t see a bruise on your stomach a lot, but he has one. He’s going to be fine. He’s going to make his next start Wednesday.” ADVERTISEMENTBrewers: INF/OF Jace Peterson was placed on the 10-day injured list, retroactive to July 20, with a left elbow strain. … RHP Justin Topa (right forearm) was sent to the rookie-level Arizona Complex League on a rehab assignment.DAZA’S FIRST HOME RUNDaza went 349 at-bats without a home run, the fourth-longest active streak in the majors and second-longest in the NL.“I didn’t try to hit a homer,” he said. “I don’t know how that happened, but I’m happy.”UP NEXTRHP Chad Kuhl (6-5, 4.11 ERA) starts for the Rockies against LHP Eric Lauer (6-3, 3.64) in the third game of the four-game series Sunday.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/mlb and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports