SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Brandon Crawford hit a game-ending RBI single, and the San Francisco Giants rallied from an early 3-0 deficit to beat the Arizona Diamondbacks 4-3 on Wednesday.Wilmer Flores tied the game in the eighth with a pinch-hit homer. Brandon Belt started the rally with a solo homer in the seventh as the Giants took two of three from the D-backs and won their first series since June 17-19 at Pittsburgh.“I think momentum can definitely go both ways,” Crawford said, “and hopefully we can take this momentum and turn it into some more wins going forward.”Ketel Marte homered for the D-backs, who have lost 17 of their last 19 games at Oracle Park.Belt led off the ninth against Arizona closer Mark Melancon (3-8) with a single. Mike Yastrzemski hit a one-out double to right, David Villar walked to load the bases, and Crawford hammered a line drive to right field off the glove of Daulton Varsho to score Belt.ADVERTISEMENT“Everybody knows this is who we are, always trying to find ways to win with good pitching and timely hitting,” Flores said.Camilo Doval (3-4) struck out two in a scoreless ninth for the Giants, who have won four of five since a 4-14 stretch that dropped their record to .500.MLBLEADING OFF: Orioles streak into Tampa; early break in LAGrichuk, Cron power Rockies to 8-5 win over PadresCorey Seager replaces George Springer on AL All-Star rosterAstros' Altuve leaves shortly after getting hit by pitch“We’re getting back on track and these kinds of games can definitely help you pick up the momentum and carry into the next games, next series and rest of the year,” Belt said. “I’ve seen it happen in our World Series years. I saw it last year with Atlanta. You just get momentum and a lot of crazy stuff happens.”Daulton Varsho hit a two-run triple in the second inning and Marte went deep in the third for the last-place Diamondbacks. All three runs were charged to Sam Long, who followed opener John Brebbia with 1 2/3 innings.The Giants’ bullpen was flawless from there. Tyler Rogers, Jarlin Garcia, Mauricio Llovera and Doval combined to allow two hits over the final 6 1/3 innings.D-backs starter Zac Gallen took a shutout into the seventh before allowing Belt’s one-out blast to right-center. Thairo Estrada followed with a single, Yastrzemski doubled and Villar’s flyball scored Estrada to make it 3-2.Gallen allowed two runs on four hits and struck out five in 6 2/3 innings as his winless streak reached eight starts. His last win came on May 30.“He just made a couple of mistakes,” Arizona manager Torey Lovullo said. “But he left the mound with a lead. That’s what we ask our pitchers to do.”IN A PINCHGiants manager Gabe Kapler sent four straight pinch-hitters to the plate in the eighth. Flores homered while batting for Austin Wynns. Darin Ruf then hit for LaMonte Wade Jr. and singled. Yermín Mercedes replaced Joc Pederson and struck out. Luis González came up for Austin Slater and grounded into an inning-ending double play.“Everyone knows how we play and everyone on the bench is always ready,” Flores said. “I was ready since the fourth inning.”TRAINER’S ROOMDiamondbacks: RHP J.B. Bukauskas (strained right shoulder) continued his rehab assignment with Triple-A Reno on Tuesday, allowing two hits and striking out one in a scoreless inning.ADVERTISEMENTGiants: 3B Evan Longoria (left oblique strain) is expected to begin a rehab assignment as early as Thursday. There is a chance he could return before the All-Star break. “I think there’s a possibility for the weekend,” Kapler said. “I think we want to make sure that door stays open.”ROSTER MOVEThe Giants claimed RHP Angel Rondón off waivers from the St. Louis Cardinals and optioned him to Triple-A Sacramento.UP NEXTDiamondbacks: LHP Madison Bumgarner (5-8, 3.65 ERA) opens a three-game series at San Diego on Friday. The Padres have won seven of the first nine meetings this season.Giants: LHP Carlos Rodón (8-5, 2.70) takes the mound on Thursday as San Francisco welcomes Milwaukee for a four-game series.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/mlb and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports