PARIS (AP) — LOOKAHEAD TO TUESDAYThe top two men on the bottom half of the French Open draw finally get their tournament started on Day Three. Second-seeded Daniil Medvedev, the reigning U.S. Open champion who recently returned to the tour after hernia surgery, opens the morning in Court Suzanne Lenglen against Facundo Bagnis. At at the other end of the schedule, fourth-seeded Stefanos Tsitsipas, the runner-up to Novak Djokovic at Roland Garros a year ago, closes the action in Court Philippe Chatrier with a night session matchup with Lorenzo Musetti. Both Tsitsipas and Musetti took two-sets-to-none leads against Djokovic at the 2021 French Open before losing to him. Among the leading women in action as the first round wraps up are No. 3 seed Paula Badosa, who faces France’s Fiona Ferro in Chatrier, and two-time major runner-up Karolina Pliskova, who meets France’s Tessah Andrianjafitrimo in Court Simonne Mathieu.ADVERTISEMENTTUESDAY’S FORECASTCloudy with a chance of rain. High of 64 degrees Fahrenheit (18 Celsius).MONDAY’S KEY RESULTSWomen’s First Round: No. 1 Iga Swiatek beat Lesia Tsurenko 6-2, 6-0; Diane Parry beat No. 2 Barbora Krejcikova 1-6, 6-2, 6-3; No. 12 Emma Raducanu beat Linda Noskova 6-7 (4), 7-5, 6-1; No. 27 Amanda Ansimova beat Naomi Osaka 7-5, 6-4.SportsMLB suspends Yanks' Donaldson for 1 game for 'Jackie' remarkOsaka loses in 1st round of French Open, may skip WimbledonDjokovic backs ATP, laments Wimbledon 'lose-lose situation'Ukrainian tennis player laments lack of support in her sportMen’s First Round: No. 1 Novak Djokovic beat Yoshihito Nishioka 6-3, 6-1, 6-0; Rafael Nadal beat Jordan Thompson 6-2, 6-2, 6-2; Corentin Moutet beat Stan Wawrinka 2-6, 6-3, 7-6 (2), 6-3.STAT OF THE DAY7 — The total number of times across all Grand Slam tournaments in the Open era, which began in 1968, that the reigning women’s singles champion from one year lost in the first round the following year. Barbora Krejcikova was unseeded when she won the French Open in 2021. She was seeded No. 2 when she exited in the first round in 2022.QUOTE OF THE DAY“I want people to understand that war is terrible and there is nothing worse in this world than a war. I think when it’s not in your country, you don’t really understand how terrible it is.” — Lesia Tsurenko, a Ukrainian tennis player, speaking about Russia’s invasion.___More AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports