FLORENCE, Ala. (AP) — Anyone interested in purchasing a trailer has an opportunity to buy one that carries a piece of the story of Alabama’s battle against COVID-19.The Lauderdale County Commission is selling two trailers that had been used as mobile vaccine clinics. Commission Chairman Danny Pettus said they are starting the bid for the trailers at $87,000 each.The commission purchased the trailers for a combined $157,000 in February 2021 and has used them throughout the county.“They served their purpose,” Pettus said.He said Lauderdale was the first county in the state to create a mobile COVID-19 vaccine clinic.“We led the way,” Pettus said. “That relieved a lot of lines at the health department.”Vaccine project manager Mike Melton said the vehicles have a variety of potential uses from a command center to business or living use.“They were really smart with what they bought,” Melton said. “It was a functional mobile operation.”ADVERTISEMENTEach vehicle has capacity for 90 gallons of potable water and two gas tanks, Melton said. It has a living room, shower, two restrooms, kitchen area, bedroom and another room that could serve as a bedroom or additional living space.It also has a washer and dryer hookup, three flat-screen televisions, and three awnings. The hookup to the truck can be lowered automatically onto the truck attachment.COVID-19Kansas City Royals and Minnesota Twins meet in game 4 of seriesBeijing, Shanghai ease COVID restrictions as outbreaks fadeUK to hold days-long bash to celebrate queen's 70-year reignChinatowns more vibrant after pandemic, anti-Asian violence“They’re very nice,” Melton said.The trailers are Raptor models made in December 2020. The county named them Vax 1 and Vax 2. The county program resulted in 1,388 clinic hours and 3,198 vaccinations from April through November 2021.“These are in pristine condition and have never been slept in,” said George Grabryan, director of the Lauderdale County Emergency Management Agency.Grabryan said the project was done in partnership with North Alabama Medical Center and Area Health Officer Karen Landers.“Without NAMC and Dr. Landers, this would have never happened,” he said.