LANSING, Mich. (AP) — Both Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer and the Republican-led Michigan Legislature proposed new plans to cut taxes Thursday but remained at odds over the scope and immediacy of any relief.Whitmer called for a one-time $500 rebate for “working families,” adding to her earlier proposals to gradually repeal a tax on retirement income and fully restore a credit for lower-wage earners. GOP lawmakers in turn began quickly passing sweeping legislation that would permanently reduce the state income tax, increase the personal exemption, raise it for seniors, create a child tax credit, fully reinstate the credit for low-income workers, and revise and expand a break for disabled veterans.Whitmer vetoed a $2.5 billion plan that included some identical or similar provisions two months ago, saying it would reduce funding too much.The steps Thursday came a day before Whitmer’s administration and legislative economists are expected to revise tax revenue estimates in Michigan’s two main accounts upward by billions of dollars for both this fiscal year and next. Pandemic-related budget surpluses are even larger now than was forecast in January.ADVERTISEMENT“Let’s take advantage of our additional revenue to put money in people’s pockets and deliver real relief right now to taxpayers,” the governor wrote in a letter to legislative leaders, citing high inflation. Specifics on eligibility for the rebate were not released, nor was the price tag. BusinessStocks waver on Wall Street, hover close to bear marketGOP directs culture war fury toward green investing trendNew Twitter policy aims to pierce fog of war misinformationA bear market may be on the horizon. Here’s what that meansGideon D’Assandro, spokesperson for House Speaker Jason Wentworth, said her proposed $500 rebate “is not nearly good enough for families struggling to buy groceries or gas with rising inflation. ... With billions of dollars in surplus revenue, state government can do better than this. Republicans are going to make working families a priority and deliver real savings.”Whitmer, however, told reporters that the Republican proposal “is not a real plan” and would not give people immediate tax relief. A rebate, she said, “is the quickest way ... to help people who are struggling right now.”Under the GOP bills, the state income tax would drop to 4%, from 4.25%, in 2023. The personal exemption would rise by $1,800, to $6,700. People ages 67 and older could deduct more — $21,800 ($43,600 if filing jointly), figures that would rise annually with inflation.The earned income tax credit would go from 6% of the federal credit to 20%, where it was before a change a decade ago. Parents could qualify for a $500 per-child tax credit.The main measure was approved on a 22-14 party-line vote in the Senate. The House planned to advance it to Whitmer for a likely veto later in the day.___Follow David Eggert at https://twitter.com/DavidEggert00