___Slovakia, Hungary won’t back EU sanctions on Russian energyBUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) — Slovakia and Hungary say they won’t support sanctions against Russian energy that the European Union is preparing over the war in Ukraine. The countries said Tuesday that they are too reliant on those supplies and there are no immediate alternatives. The European Commission has drafted new proposals for sanctions, which could include a phased-in embargo on Russian oil. The 27 member countries are likely to start discussing them Wednesday. Despite disagreement on new energy sanctions, European Council President Charles Michel vowed to “break the Russian war machine” by steering countries away from Russia’s natural gas supplies. He toured liquefied natural gas facilities being built in Greece with the leaders of Greece, Bulgaria, North Macedonia and Serbia.___Fed to fight inflation with fastest rate hikes in decadesADVERTISEMENTWASHINGTON (AP) — The Federal Reserve is poised this week to accelerate its most drastic steps in three decades to attack inflation by making it costlier to borrow — for a car, a home, a business deal, a credit card purchase — all of which will compound Americans’ financial strains and likely weaken the economy. Yet with inflation having surged to a 40-year high, the Fed has come under pressure to act aggressively to slow spending and curb the price spikes that are bedeviling households and companies. After the central bank’s latest rate-setting meeting ends Wednesday, the Fed is set to announce that it’s raising its benchmark short-term interest rate by a half-percentage point — the sharpest rate hike since 2000.Russia-Ukraine warLive updates | Ukrainians wait in Mexico City for US entryRussia storms Mariupol plant as some evacuees reach safetyUkrainian refugees at camp in Mexico City await US actionUS to spotlight war-caused food insecurity at  2 UN events ___EXPLAINER: What’s the latest in Russia’s dance with default?Russia’s debt drama is far from over. Moscow likely made last-minute overdue payments before the end of a grace period that expires Wednesday. But there is still widespread expectation a default may be in the offing. The finance ministry has flirted with paying with rubles, saying that sanctions have frozen its hard currency reserves but swerved to pay in dollars. Ratings agencies say doing otherwise would be default. A finance industry committee is reviewing the status of Russia’s debt and whether creditor insurance should be paid out. And more payments are due in coming days.___Employers post record 11.5 million job openings in MarchWASHINGTON (AP) — Employers posted a record 11.5 million job openings in March, meaning the United States now has an unprecedented two job openings for every person who is unemployed. The latest data released Tuesday by the the Bureau of Labor Statistics further reveals an extraordinarily tight labor market that has emboldened millions of Americans to seek better paying jobs, while also contributing to the biggest inflation surge in four decades. A record 4.5 million Americans quit their jobs in March.___Starbucks reports record Q2 sales as costs climbADVERTISEMENTStarbucks’ sales climbed to record levels in its fiscal second quarter, but its profits took a hit from climbing labor and ingredient costs. The Seattle coffee company __ which welcomed back former CEO Howard Schultz last month as its interim leader __ said revenue rose 15% to a record $7.6 billion in its 13-week quarter, which ended April 3. That was in line with Wall Street’s estimates. But net earnings rose just 2%. Starbucks same-store sales were up 7% globally despite a 23% decline in China due to coronavirus restrictions.___Strong BP profit renews call for energy sector windfall taxLONDON (AP) — BP posted its highest quarterly profit in more than a decade thanks to surging oil and gas prices. The earnings report Tuesday renewed calls for a U.K. government tax on energy companies’ windfall earnings to help households struggling with rising energy bills. The British energy giant said that underlying profit more than doubled in the first three months of the year to $6.2 billion. It reports a net loss of $23 billion after accounting for the write-off of its stake in Russian oil producer Rosneft over the Ukraine war. Opposition parties are calling for the U.K. government to tax energy companies that make unexpectedly big profits to help people struggling to get by.___Airbnb posts much smaller Q1 loss, revenue doubles from 2021Airbnb is getting a boost from the rebound in travel. The lodging-reservations company said Tuesday that while it lost $19 million in the first quarter, that was much better than the $1.2 billion loss it suffered in the same quarter last year. Airbnb says bookings are up, and revenue is nearly double 2021 levels, up to $1.51 billion. The loss was smaller than analysts expected, and revenue was slightly higher than Wall Street had forecast.___Stocks edge higher on Wall Street ahead of Fed rate decisionNEW YORK (AP) — Stocks closed modestly higher on Wall Street Tuesday as investors await Wednesday’s decision by the Federal Reserve on interest rates. The S&P 500 rose 0.5%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.2% and the Nasdaq rose 0.2%. The Fed is expected to raise its benchmark rate by twice the usual amount this week as it steps up its fight against inflation, which is at a four-decade high. Banks and other financial stocks helped lift the market. Energy stocks gained ground following solid earnings reports from BP and Devon Energy. Bond yields fell.___UN: Obesity levels in Europe at ‘epidemic proportions’LONDON (AP) — The World Health Organization says the rates of people who are obese and overweight in Europe have hit “epidemic proportions.” Nearly 60% of adults and a third of children are in one of those categories.. The U.N. health agency’s European office said in a report issued Tuesday that the prevalence of obesity among adults is higher across the continent than any other world region except for the Americas. WHO said being overweight or obese is among the leading causes of death in the region and is responsible for more than 1 million deaths every year.___Biden visits Lockheed plant as weapons stockpile strainedTROY, Ala. (AP) — President Joe Biden is crediting the assembly line workers at a Javelin missile plant for doing lifesaving work in building the antitank weapons that are being sent to Ukraine. He says the missiles are stifling Russia’s invasion as he is making a pitch for Congress to approve $33 billion so the U.S. can continue to hustle aid to the front lines. Biden’s Tuesday trip to the Alabama factory that makes the Javelin weapons system is drawing attention to a growing concern as the war drags on: Can the U.S. sustain the cadence in shipping vast amounts of arms to Ukraine while maintaining the healthy stockpile it may need?___The S&P 500 rose 20.10 points, or 0.5%, to 4,175.48. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 67.29 points, or 0.2%, to 33,128.79. The Nasdaq rose 27.74 points, or 0.2%, to 12,563.76. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 15.94 points, or 0.8%, to 1,898.86.___