MIAMI (AP) — Pavin Smith hit a two-run homer in the ninth inning, and the Arizona Diamondbacks beat the Miami Marlins 8-7 on Wednesday after left-hander Madison Bumgarner was ejected.Bumgarner gave up a leadoff homer to Jon Berti in the first, and then retired the next three batters. As he was walking to the dugout, the pitcher gestured with his arm before holding his hand out for a foreign-substance check by first base umpire Dan Bellino.Bumgarner said something to Bellino as the check was ending, and the umpire threw him out. Bumgarner then started yelling at Bellino and had to be restrained by some coaches.Bellino told a pool reporter that Bumgarner was ejected for directing profanity at an umpire. Video of the foreign-substance check showed Bellino staring at Bumgarner while he repeatedly patted his hand, but Bellino said he didn’t think that was a factor in the ejection.ADVERTISEMENTDaulton Varsho also homered for the Diamondbacks, who completed a three-game series sweep. Keynan Middleton (1-1) got the win, and Ian Kennedy earned his third save. Jesús Aguilar had three hits for Miami, which dropped its fourth straight game. Anthony Bender (0-3) got the loss.MLBBumgarner ejected, Smith homers as Diamondbacks beat MarlinsMargot’s two-run single puts Rays past slumping A’s 3-0Verlander solid again as Astros complete sweep of MarinersAdam Duvall gets key hit as Braves beat Mets 9-2BRAVES 9, METS 2NEW YORK (AP) — Adam Duvall hit a two-run double during Atlanta’s seven-run sixth inning.Dansby Swanson and Ronald Acuña Jr. added RBI singles in Atlanta’s biggest inning of the season. Travis d’Arnaud walked with the bases loaded, and Matt Olson capped the outburst with a run-scoring groundout.Atlanta’s Ian Anderson (3-1), who grew up about three hours north of Citi Field in Clifton Park, pitched 5 2/3 innings of one-run ball.Luis Guillorme homered in the ninth for New York, which had won three of four.Mets right-hander Tylor Megill (4-1) was charged with three runs and four hits in 5 1/3 innings in his first start since he combined with four relievers on a no-hitter Friday night against Philadelphia.PADRES 5, GUARDIANS 4, GAME 1CLEVELAND (AP) — San Diego’s Mike Clevinger had an impressive first start since undergoing elbow surgery in 2020, and Manny Machado hit a two-run homer in the first game of a doubleheader.Machado connected in the third inning off Zach Plesac (1-3), and Austin Nola delivered a go-ahead RBI double in the sixth as the Padres won for the sixth time in seven games — all on the road.Steven Wilson (3-0) got the win despite walking two in the fifth, and Taylor Rodgers pitched the ninth for his 10th save.It was a solid return for Clevinger, who had Tommy John surgery not long after pitching in Game 1 of the NLDS two years ago. Facing his former team and Plesac, one of his closest friends, the right-hander allowed three runs and four hits.ASTROS 7, MARINERS 2HOUSTON (AP) — Justin Verlander pitched five-hit ball into the seventh inning, helping Houston close out a three-game series sweep.ADVERTISEMENTAlex Bregman had three hits and three RBIs for the Astros, and Michael Brantley drove in two runs.Verlander permitted two runs in 6 2/3 innings. He is 3-1 with a 1.93 ERA in five starts this season in his return from Tommy John surgery. Houston star Jose Altuve fouled a ball off his groin area in the fourth inning. He was replaced at second base to start the fifth, and the team said he left the game with right groin soreness.Eugenio Suárez hit a two-run homer for Seattle in the seventh, snapping a scoreless drought of 24 1/3 innings for the Mariners after they were shut out in the first two games of this series. Matt Brash (1-3) got the loss.CARDINALS 10, ROYALS 0KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) — Adam Wainwright pitched seven sharp innings for St. Louis, and Nolan Arenado hit a three-run shot and finished with five RBIs.Wainwright (3-3) allowed just a one-out single to Michael Taylor in the third against the weak-hitting Royals, whose only other baserunners against the 40-year-old right-hander came on a fielder’s choice, an error and a walk.Tyler O’Neill hit a two-run homer for St. Louis and finished with three RBIs, one of them coming against struggling Royals starter Kris Bubic (0-3), who retired just one batter before he was pulled after 24 pitches. The final scheduled game between the cross-state rivals this year was moved from a night game to the afternoon because of the threat of rain, though sprinkles still fell on the sparse Kauffman Stadium crowd midway through it.RAYS 3, ATHLETICS 0OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) — Manuel Margot hit a two-run single in the eighth inning, and the Rays blanked the Athletics to complete a three-game sweep.Margot came up with the bases loaded and two outs against Zach Jackson (0-1) and served an opposite-field single to right, scoring Brett Phillips and Randy Arozarena.Domingo Acevedo balked in another run to make it 3-0.Rays reliever J.P. Feyereisen (2-0) pitched 1 1/3 innings to earn the win. Andrew Kittredge pitched a perfect ninth to earn his fourth save.The Athletics finished their homestand 0-6, getting outscored 38-20.TIGERS 3, PIRATES 2, GAME 1DETROIT (AP) — Willi Castro and Akil Baddoo scored on third baseman Ke’Bryan Hayes’ two-out error during Detroit’s three-run fifth inning, and the Tigers edged the Pirates in the first game of a doubleheader.The Tigers finished with just three hits, but they scored three unearned runs on their way to their second victory in nine games. Alex Lange (1-1) got two outs for the win, and Gregory Soto worked the ninth for his fourth save.Dillon Peters pitched 3 1/3 innings for Pittsburgh, stretching his season-long scoreless streak to 16 2/3 innings. Bryse Wilson (0-1) struck out six in 3 2/3 innings, but was charged with the loss.The Pirates lost for the sixth time in seven games.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports