A look at what’s happening around the majors today:___THE MAXMets ace Max Scherzer starts at night against Bryce Harper and the Phillies at Citi Field.Scherzer is 3-0 with a 1.80 ERA in four starts during his first year in New York. The three-time Cy Young Award winner has struck out 33 in 25 innings while allowing just 11 hits.Scherzer hasn’t lost in his last 23 starts, the longest streak since Walker Buehler went 23 straight starts without a loss for the Dodgers from 2019-2021.Zach Eflin (1-1, 3.20 ERA) pitches for Philadelphia.STREAKINGLuis Severino (2-0, 3.32 ERA) starts for the Yankees as they try for their ninth straight win, taking on the Royals in Kansas City. ... Sandy Alcantara (2-1, 1.78) pitches for the Marlins as they go for their eighth win in a row, hosting the Mariners. Logan Gilbert (3-0, 0.40) starts for Seattle.ADVERTISEMENTROCKY STARTColorado lefty Kyle Freeland tries again for his first win since signing a $64.5 million, five-year contract last month.The 28-year-old Denver native is 0-3 with a 6.16 ERA in four starts for the Rockies this season.MLBRays and Twins play, winner claims 3-game seriesMariners take on the Marlins looking to stop road skidAthletics aim to avoid series sweep against the GuardiansPirates and Padres play, winner takes 3-game seriesHe’s set to pitch against the Reds at Coors Field.AILING RAYSA COVID-19 outbreak hit the Tampa Bay staff this weekend during its series against Minnesota at Tropicana Field, keeping pitching coach Kyle Snyder, field coordinator Paul Hoover, bench coach Matt Quatraro and bullpen coach Stan Boroski away from the team until further notice. None of them will be on the plane Sunday night when the Rays fly to Oakland for the start of a nine-game road trip.“When something like this snowballs like it did today. . . . I mean, we’ve been dealing, dealing, dealing trying to contain it, and then the last day or two it’s hit us pretty hard,” manager Kevin Cash said.CRUISIN’ CARDSThe St. Louis Cardinals lead the majors with 22 stolen bases in 23 attempts.The lone blemish came when slugger Albert Pujols tried to swipe third at Milwaukee on April 14 and was caught by Brewers pitcher Brandon Woodruff.Harrison Bader tops the NL with six steals after a swipe against Arizona on Saturday. He had a total of nine steals in 2021.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports