NEW YORK (AP) — Gleyber Torres hit a game-ending homer to lead off the ninth inning and the New York Yankees beat the Texas Rangers 2-1 Sunday in the opener of a doubleheader.Torres gave the Yankees their third walk-off victory of the season when he lifted a 3-1 sinker from John King (1-1) into the short porch in right field. His fourth homer this year propelled New York to its 12th win in 13 games.Torres also had a game-ending single April 23 against Cleveland. His seven walk-off hits are most in the majors since 2018, and this was his second game-ending homer.“The bigger the situation, it does seem like he ratchets the concentration level a bit,” manager Aaron Boone said. “Cold day out there, it was good to see him to stick one.”Giancarlo Stanton hit a sacrifice fly in the sixth after Rangers starter Dane Dunning lost his no-hit bid on an infield single by Aaron Judge to open the inning.ADVERTISEMENTKole Calhoun homered on Yankees starter Gerrit Cole’s final pitch, but the Rangers committed three errors and ended a four-game winning streak.Cole allowed a run and five hits in 6 1/3 innings. He struck out 10, walked one and threw a season-high 114 pitches, reaching 100.6 mph.MLBMercado's single in eighth gives Guardians 4-3 win over JaysCubs scratch RHP Marcus Stroman, put him on ILMoran hits grand slam, 2-run homer as Reds beat Pirates 7-3Polanco, Twins bullpen send Athletics to 9th straight lossIt was the most pitches thrown by any starter in the majors this season. It also was Cole’s most pitches since throwing 116 on Sept. 1 against the Angels. He came out for the seventh after lobbying Boone to stay in. “I felt really good,” Cole said. “I think I executed every single pitch the inning before. I know we have a doubleheader today and I just want to let them know like, ‘Hey I’m good.’”Cole allowed three of his hits in the first two innings, when he threw 47 pitches. After allowing his only walk, Cole retired 14 of 15 hitters before Calhoun connected.“After them making him work hard there in the first two innings, I thought he settled in and got in a really good rhythm with all of his pitches,” Boone said.Dunning allowed one run and two hits in six innings. He struck out five, walked three and did not throw any of his 100 pitches over 90.8 mph.“I was getting some weird looks at some changeups, and some changeups that I started way outside and came back,” Dunning said. “I was getting a couple of bad swings on it as well.”Calhoun ended Cole’s bid for a third straight scoreless start when he lined a full count 97.6 mph fastball to the right field seats and just inside the foul line with one out in the seventh. It was the only fastball Cole threw in the seventh.“Just bad damage,” Cole said. “I just got beat.”Dunning lost his no-bid on his 86th pitch when Judge hit an infield single to third baseman Brad Miller and easily beat the throw. Anthony Rizzo followed with a single that moved Judge to third, and Stanton’s fly ball to left gave the Yankees a 1-0 lead.ADVERTISEMENTJonathan Loáisiga followed Cole with 1 2/3 innings. Clay Holmes (3-0) worked around Mitch Garver’s double in the ninth.TRAINER’S ROOMRangers: RHP Josh Sborz was recalled from Triple-A Round Rock as the 27th man for doubleheader.Yankees: OF Tim Locastro (left lat strain) was placed on the 10-day injured list and will be out a few weeks. Locastro said he was hurt when he stole second as a pinch-runner in the ninth inning of Monday’s 3-2 win in Toronto. ... RHP Ron Marinaccio was recalled from Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, and Boone said the Yankees will likely keep an extra pitcher through the opener of a four-game series in Chicago on Thursday. ... OF Estevan Florial was added to the roster as the 27th man.UP NEXT: Texas RHP Glenn Otto (1-0, 2.89) opposes New York LHP Jordan Montgomery (0-1, 2.88 ERA) in the second game.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports