Nonfiction 1. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)2. Endure by Cameron Hanes, narrated by the author, David Goggins, and Joe Rogan (Macmillan Audio)3. Finding Me by Viola Davis, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)4. Mythos by Stephen Fry, narrated by Stephen Fry (Chronicle Books)5. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)6. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 7. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio)8. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)9. 12 Rules for Life by Jordan B. Peterson, narrated by the author (Random House Canada)10. The Body Keeps the Score by Bessel A. van der Kolk, narrated by Sean Pratt (Penguin Audio)Fiction1. Where the Crawdads Sing by Delia Owens, narrated by Cassandra Campbell (Penguin Audio)ADVERTISEMENT2. Dead Against Her by Melinda Leigh, narrated by Christina Traister (Brilliance Audio)3. In the Blood by Jack Carr, narrated by Ray Porter (Simon & Schuster Audio)4. The Butcher’s Masquerade by Matt Dinniman, narrated by Jeff Hays (Soundbooth Theater)EntertainmentJury sides with Johnny Depp in libel case, awards him $10MPinkett Smith talks hair-loss 'shame,' outcome of Oscar slapQ&A: Mark Rylance on his still-evolving life in moviesReview: The pain and beauty of ‘Crimes of the Future’5. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)6. Then She Was Gone by Lisa Jewell, narrated by Helen Duff (Dreamscape Media, LLC)7. The Terminal List by Jack Carr, narrated by Ray Porter (Simon & Schuster Audio)8. Nightwork by Nora Roberts, narrated by Will Damron (Macmillan Audio)9. Shadow and Bone by Leigh Bardugo, performed by Lauren Fortgang (Audible Studios)10. The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo by Taylor Jenkins Reid, narrated by Alma Cuervo, Julia Whelan and Robin Miles (Simon & Schuster Audio)