CINCINNATI (AP) — Kyle Farmer homered and had five RBIs to power the Cincinnati Reds to their high-scoring game in 23 years, a 20-5 rout of the Chicago Cubs on Thursday.Farmer and Nick Senzel had four hits each, and Brandon Drury, Tommy Pham and Albert Almora Jr. had three apiece. The Reds entered with a .217 batting average, 28th among the 30 teams, and finished with 20 hits in all as they gained a four-game split.Cincinnati trailed 3-0 before scoring twice in the second and bursting ahead with eight runs in the third. The Reds scored their most runs since a 22-3 win at Philadelphia on Sept. 4, 1999, while Chicago gave up its most since a 21-8 defeat at the Phillies on July 3, 1999.Cubs shortstop Andrelton Simmons made his big league pitching debut, allowing five runs in the eighth.Hunter Greene (2-6) won for the first time since his major league debut on April 10 despite giving up five runs, seven hits and two walks in five innings. He had been 0-6 with a 5.50 ERA in his previous seven starts.ADVERTISEMENTWillson Contreras and Ian Happ hit back-to-back homers in the fifth. Nico Hoerner also homered for the Cubs. Cubs starter Justin Steele (1-5) gave up seven runs, seven hits and two walks in two-plus innings, MLBBuxton, Twins relish 'little wins' of crash-free OF playsOnce-hopeful Mariners sinking after awful 30-day stretchYankees sign Matt Carpenter, bring up Manny BañuelosJosh Donaldson apologizes to Jackie Robinson's familyFarmer missed the prior four games with general soreness, then hit a two-run homer in the second inning and a solo shot in fifth for his first career multihomer game. He entered with one homer this season.Farmer added a two-run single in the sixth.Matt Reynolds hit a two-run triple, and Tyler Stephenson and Almora had two-run singles in the third,TRAINERS ROOMCubs: RF Seiya Suzuki left the game after injuring his left ring finger during an awkward slide in the third inning. ... INF Nick Madrigal will start a rehab assignment on Saturday at Iowa. He has been out with back tightness. ... LHP Alec Mills is scheduled to pitch three innings on a rehab assignment on Friday, about 55 pitches. Mills is on the 60-day IL and not eligible to come off until June 8Reds: SS Jose Barrero (wrist surgery) is going to stay at Triple-A Louisville for the time being. “He could come back at any point but we’re not going to rush that,” manager David Bell said.UP NEXTCubs: Opens a two-game series at the Chicago White Sox following an off day Friday. Right-hander Johnny Cueto (0-0), who was signed to a minor league earlier this month, is slated to make his third start for the White Sox. The Cubs haven’t said who’ll start yet. Reds: Open a three-game set at home with the San Francisco Giants on Friday night. LHP Carlos Rodon (4-3) is the scheduled starter for the Giants against a Reds pitcher who’s still to be determined.____More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports