PHOENIX (AP) — Major League Baseball veteran umpire Dan Bellino has issued an apology after ejecting Arizona Diamondbacks star pitcher Madison Bumgarner from a game in Miami this week.The Diamondbacks said Friday they received a copy of Bellino’s apology from MLB.“I would like to address my actions on May 4th involving Madison Bumgarner,” the statement said. “When I began my MLB career almost 15 years ago, I received some good advice. I was told to umpire every game as if my children were sitting in the front row. I fell short of those expectations this week. While I can’t go back and change what happened, I take full accountability. I will learn from this incident, and I sincerely apologize.”Bumgarner gave up a leadoff homer to the Marlins’ Jon Berti in the first inning Wednesday and then retired the next three batters. As he was walking to the dugout, the veteran left-hander gestured with his arm before holding his hand out for Bellino to take a look.ADVERTISEMENTBumgarner said something to Bellino as the check was ending, and the umpire threw him out. The 32-year-old then started yelling at Bellino and had to be restrained by some coaches.MLBMLB umpire apologizes after ejecting D-backs star BumgarnerMets-Phillies postponed by rain; doubleheader in AugustRangers-Yankees series opener postponed; doubleheader SundayTo the showers! 6 MLB rainouts, most in a day since 2018The Diamondbacks worked around Bumgarner’s ejection and beat the Marlins 8-7.ESPN first reported about Bellino’s apology.Bumgarner faces no further discipline from MLB.The 43-year-old Bellino joined the full-time MLB umpiring staff in 2011 and worked the World Series last year.“You guys have seen the video,” Bumgarner said on Wednesday. “I don’t know if I could say anything that would make the situation better. What I am going to say is I’m extremely proud of our team, coming back. Obviously, I didn’t go into the game with the intention of throwing one inning. Everyone picked me up today.”Bellino told a pool reporter that Bumgarner was ejected for directing profanity at an umpire.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/mlb and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports