CHICAGO (AP) — A Chicago police officer shot and seriously wounded a 13-year-old boy who ran away after after he was pulled over driving a vehicle that was involved in a carjacking the day before, officials said Thursday.The Civilian Office of Police Accountability (COPA), the agency that investigates officer-involved shootings, said in a news release that the shooting happened Wednesday night on the city’s far West Side after pfficers spotted a vehicle matching the description of one used in a carjacking in the Chicago suburb of Oak Park.“Offices engaged in a foot pursuit of one of the occupants of the vehicle,” COPA spokesman Ephraim Eaddy said in the release. Öne officer discharged their firearm, striking the occupant who is 13 years of age.”According to the release, the teen was taken to a nearby hospital, where he was reported in serious but stable condition. A second suspect who fled the scene was not captured.ADVERTISEMENTNo weapon was recovered at the scene, COPA said in the release. COPA said it has recovered video footage from the officer’s body-worn camera but was prohibited from releasing it because of the boy who was shot is a minor. Erik Jacobsen, a spokesman for Oak Park, the suburb to the immediate west of Chicago, said the car was identified as a vehicle involved in a carjacking on Tuesday night in the downtown area of the community.PoliticsBiden hails Finland, Sweden NATO bids as leaders visit USCongress OKs latest $40B to help Ukraine repulse RussiaFDA head: Baby formula factory could reopen by next weekOz, McCormick at tie in PA with thousands of ballots outJacobson said a woman had parked her car, left the engine running and climbed out, leaving her three-year-old son inside. When she did, a male jumped in and drove off. The vehicle was found several blocks away about 15 minutes later. The child was unharmed. Jacobsen said that after the person got out of the car, and jumped into another car that had been trailing the stolen car, possibly driven by someone also involved in the carjacking. The second car, which the suspect jumped into, had also been previously stolen. Jacobsen said it was unclear if the teen who was shot by police is a suspect in the carjacking.