CHATTOGRAM, Bangladesh (AP) — Bangladesh built a first-innings lead of 68 runs then snatched two wickets before Sri Lanka could rub it out on day four of the first test on Wednesday.Mushfiqur Rahim became the first Bangladeshi to 5,000 test runs as he hit a patient 105, his eighth century. Together with Tamim Iqbal, who retired hurt on 133 the day before and couldn’t add to his score on Wednesday, Mushfiqur and Liton Das’ 88 helped Bangladesh notch 465 and eclipse Sri Lanka’s 397.Stumps were pulled on Sri Lanka’s second innings when a second wicket was lost with only 39 runs on the board at Zahur Ahmed Chowdhury Stadium.After the day’s play was delayed by 30 minutes because of rain, Bangladesh resumed on 318-3 and moved slowly in the morning session. Mushfiqur was 15 runs short of the 5,000-run milestone when play resumed and he hit the mark, in his 81st test, with two runs to fine leg off pace bowler Asitha Fernando.ADVERTISEMENT“It’s nice feat to get finally,” Mushfiqur said. “But it’s not the end. I hope the legacy will be continued. I believe there are junior players, like Mahmudul Hasan, will get 8,000 or 10,000 test runs in future.”Vishwa Fernando’s concussion sub, Kasun Rajitha, struck twice in the first two balls of the post-lunch session. He first removed Liton, whose 88 from 189 balls included 10 boundaries.CricketAnderson and Broad return to England test squad under StokesSouth Africa's Hamza gets 9-month ban for doping offenseTamim ton puts Bangladesh in charge of 1st test on Day 3South Africa calls up Stubbs for T20s in India, no 'Baby AB'That brought an end to the 165-run partnership between him and Mushfiqur.Tamim came back after cramps on Tuesday, and 19 runs from the 5,000 mark, but was out trying to drive the first ball he faced. Rajitha registered a career-best 4-60.Mushfiqur helped Bangladesh pass Sri Lanka’s total and reached his century off 270 balls, glancing Asitha Fernando for a fourth boundary through fine leg. It was Mushfiqur’s slowest century in terms of balls faced.While Mushfiqur moved slowly, Shakib Al Hasan tried to up the pace but he top-edged a delivery from Asitha to the wicketkeeper on 25.Asitha finished with 3-72.Mushfiqur followed Shakib soon after and the tailenders couldn’t produce any resistance. No. 10 Shoriful Islam retired hurt and the left-arm medium-pacer didn’t bowl in the 17.1 overs Sri Lanka batted to the end of the day.Taijul Islam was responsible for both Sri Lanka wickets. His throw from midwicket ran out Oshada Fernando on 19 when a run wasn’t on, and he spun out nightwatchman Lasith Embuldeniya between bat and pad for 2.Captain Dimuth Karunaratne was left on 18 not out. .___More AP cricket: https://apnews.com/hub/cricket and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports