TULSA, Okla. (AP) — The Latest on the second round of the PGA Championship (all times local):___10:30 a.m.Tiger Woods put two shots in the water over his first six holes during the third round of the PGA Championship, including one on the par-3 sixth Saturday that eventually resulted in a triple bogey.The trouble began at the par-4 second, when Woods found the meandering stream off the tee but managed to make bogey. Four holes later, he hit another tee shot into the water at the 218-yard sixth and everything unraveled. He played from the drop area and hit into the rough left of the green, then left his pitch short of the putting surface. Woods finally chipped to within 2 feet and made the putt for a six that left him 7 over for the championship.Woods did not have a penalty shot over his first two rounds at Southern Hills.___9:30 a.m.Tiger Woods has picked up where he left off at the PGA Championship, but only briefly.ADVERTISEMENTWoods one-putted five of his last six holes at the end of the second round, including a pair of 15-foot par putts, that allowed him to rally to make the cut at Southern Hills.He began the third round by holing a 15-foot par putt. But on the second hole, Woods put his tee shot into the meandering stream. It was his first penalty shot of the week. He wound up with a bogey and was 4 over for the tournament. A conventional par on No. 3 left him 1 over for the round.GolfFriday Sports in BriefKey hole in the 2nd round at PGA ChampionshipRecord 6 Latin Americans start off well at PGA ChampionshipKey hole from opening day at PGA ChampionshipTemperatures have yet to top 60 degrees, and Louis Oosthuizen arrived wearing a full face scarf to cope with the chill.Of the early starters, Webb Simpson is 2 under through four holes, but hardly making up much ground. ___8 a.m.Out with the wind, in with the rain at the PGA Championship on Saturday.Southern Hills had about a half-inch of rain in the early morning hours, along with a lightning show that delayed the start of the third round by some 30 minutes. That left the course a little softer as it was starting to get firm. Will Zalatoris has a one-shot lead and won’t tee off until early afternoon. On deck is Tiger Woods, who showed great fight in his finish for a 69 to make the cut by one.Woods was 12 shots behind.___More AP golf: https://apnews.com/hub/golf and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports