Some reactions from Tony Award nominees on Monday:“Coming out of the pandemic, I just feel a validation and a further mandate to keep digging down into the Blackness of my art and to put that forward as something that’s worth paying attention to and shelling out money to produce and shelling out money to come and see because it is worth it. Because Black artists have been doing incredible work for a century.” — Playwright Michael R. Jackson, whose musical “A Strange Loop” earned 11 Tony nominations, in an interview.___“I said every single day during that pandemic, as I was struggling to pay rent, struggling just to figure out how to get through it, that I just wanted to be there on the other side, that bringing back theater was the most important thing in my mind.” — Matt Doyle, nominated for featured actor in a musical for “Company,” in an interview. ___“I’m in shock a little bit. I’m just sort of absorbing it all. My aim from the start of this journey was just to be in a really great production with great people and you can’t ask much more than Martin McDonough, and David Threlfall and the rest of the cast, it’s just been fantastic — I’m just on Cloud 9 a little bit, I’m out having some pancakes, and I am having a lovely morning.” — Alfie Allen, nominated for “Hangmen,” in an interview.Entertainment'A Strange Loop' earns a leading 11 Tony Award nominationsJoshua Cohen, the late Winfred Rembert win arts PulitzersPulitzer Prizes award Washington Post for Jan. 6 coverageSelect list of nominees for 2022 Tony AwardsADVERTISEMENT___“This is my first time having this experience in the box, having experience on stage, and that fellowship, that dynamic, that partnership, that reliance we have with each other, that interplay with the audience is critical and something new to me. So it’s a thrilling ride.” — Jesse Williams, nominated for “Take Me Out,” in an interview.___“This type of stuff doesn’t happen for folks like me. Or so I thought. Until today... I’ve put the possibility of even a Tony nomination out of my mind because I never believed it was possible for a person like me. I thought I had to be skinny, I thought I had to be masculine, I thought I had to be from a wealthy family, and I thought I had to be ‘Perfect’. Turns out all I needed to be was Jaquel and that feels good as hell right now.” — Jaquel Spivey, best actor nominee for “A Strange Loop, in a statement.___“If I wasn’t saving my voice I’d open a window and scream my thanks to the heavens.” — Mary-Louise Parker, best leading actress in a play nominee, in a statement.___“This has been a historic season for a multitude of reasons. There’s been a diversity of Black voices on Broadway in unprecedented numbers. Theater came back after being dark for almost two years and we made art while facing down COVID. And so this feels particularly good given all of the circumstances,” Lynn Nottage, in an interview, after her book for the Michael Jackson musical “MJ” was nominated for best book and her play “Clyde’s” got a nod for best play. ___“I’m not sure we’ve had a chance to really process what we’ve all been through collectively because we’re all just trying to keep our heads down and do the work. But I will tell you this morning during the design awards (nominations), which were the first ones, I was shocked to see that I was weeping.... So I was overcome with emotion just for our community as a whole that we’re back. And thank God we are. And I’m so, so, bloody grateful.” — Jennifer Simard, nominated for “Company,” in an interview.ADVERTISEMENT___“I am ecstatic to have my name listed alongside those four brilliant artists for the next month, as we celebrate the resilience of this community. Our show has been through so much. This nomination honors all my remarkable colleagues at the Sondheim (Theater) who make my performance possible. I love them. “ — Rob McClure, nominated for best leading actor in a musical for “Mrs. Doubtfire,” in a statement.___“I’m sitting here in the doctor’s office pinching myself. This feels like a dream! It has definitely been a dream for a majority of my life! But, I would have never dreamt of it happening while being with child, working on a show that is extremely important to me, with a family/tribe of Sisters that mean the world to me. So grateful for Camille A. Brown for this experience and for her belief in me. I’m just grateful beyond grateful.” — Kenita R. Miller, nominated for featured actress in a play for “for colored girls who have considered suicide/when the rainbow is enough,” in a statement. ADVERTISEMENT___“I am so moved by the relentless work of this entire cast and crew whom I ADORE beyond words. And of course to Sam Gold for his leadership and wisdom and integrity and trust. And to Barbara for being the kindest and biggest champion. Feel truly blessed to be surrounded by this gang!” — Ruth Negga, nominated for best actress for “Macbeth,” in a statement. ___“What an unbelievable moment! ‘Six’ started as a student show performing in a hotel conference room. Every step since then has been a delight and a surprise. I never could have dreamed of us reaching Broadway, so getting nominated for a Tony Award is beyond words. So grateful and so happy!” – Jamie Armitage, nominated for best direction, in a statement.___“To be a part of the return of Broadway is a great privilege. The vast amount of talent putting on eight shows a week is inspiring. I know the quote ‘we are a family’ is often overused. But not here. Not in the theater. It takes thousands working together to make Broadway hum. I stand alongside the extraordinary cast, crew and creative team of ‘The Music Man’ in thanking The American Theatre Wing for our nominations. After two years of virtual darkness, Broadway is back, bright and ready to celebrate at the Tonys.” — Hugh Jackman, nominee for best actor in a leading role in a music, in a statement. ADVERTISEMENT___“Words can’t express how honored and blessed I am to receive this nomination. I look at this nomination as the culmination of the hard work that everyone at the Neil Simon has put into this show that I love — so I completely share it with everyone that is a part of the production. Without their hard work, support and constant belief in me and this show, I wouldn’t be who I am today nor would I have the strength and drive to give each performance more than 100%. I am just so thankful to be a part of this community.” — Myles Frost, nominee for best performance by an actor in a leading role in a musical for “MJ,” in a statement. ___“We first previewed ‘The Lehman Trilogy’ on Broadway in March 2020. It’s now over two years later and we are all so thrilled for everyone who stuck with it through those dark days. I’m genuinely delighted and grateful to be getting this kind of recognition today.” — Sam Mendes, nominee for best direction of a play for “The Lehman Trilogy,” in a statement.