A look at what’s happening around the majors today:___WINGING IT FOR THE CARDSFirst, Albert Pujols. Then, Yadier Molina.Anyone else want to pitch for St. Louis this season?First-year manager Oliver Marmol is definitely mixing fun with wins when it comes to who he puts on the mound.Exactly a week after the slugging Pujols made his first pitching appearance in the majors, Molina got his turn Sunday, closing out an 18-4 romp at Pittsburgh. As the perennial Gold Glove catcher got loose, Pujols went behind the plate to catch Molina’s warmup tosses.Both All-Stars finished their one-inning stints with a 36.00 ERA.Topping out at 69 mph, Molina gave up four runs, including two homers, and four hits. He threw 14 of 20 pitches for strikes, without a strikeout or walk.Pujols also permitted four runs and two homers in one inning while closing out a rout of San Francisco. Pujols gave up three hits, walked one and struck out none.ADVERTISEMENTNaturally, the two stars poked each other over who threw it best.“Mine was better. I didn’t give up a double like he did,” Pujols told St. Louis media.Retorted Molina: “I didn’t walk anybody.”But it was not all fun and games for St. Louis. Starter Steven Matz lasted only four pitches before being pulled with stiffness in his left shoulder.MLBNationals begin 3-game series against the DodgersCardinals host the Blue Jays to start 2-game seriesMariners begin 3-game series with the AthleticsYankees host the Orioles to begin 3-game series“Sometimes stuff comes up,” Matz said. “I felt it a little bit in the bullpen. I was trying to work through it a little bit. ... Just try to get through this, get some outs.”Right-hander Miles Mikolas (3-2, 1.68 ERA) starts at Busch Stadium as the Cardinals open a two-game series against righty José Berríos (3-2, 4.83) and the Blue Jays.CATCHING SOME Z’SIt’ll be Zack Greinke vs. Zach Davies when Kansas City begins a nine-game homestand by taking on the Diamondbacks.The 38-year-old Greinke is still trying for his first win in his return to the Royals — he made his major league debut with them in 2004, won a Cy Young Award there and stayed with the team for seven seasons.Greinke is 0-2 with a 3.48 ERA in eight starts. He pitched for Arizona in 2016-19 and was a three-time All-Star there.Davies is 2-2 with a 4.35 ERA for Arizona.GREEN SURGERYYankees setup man Chad Green will have Tommy John surgery, a rare setback this season for the team with the best record in the majors.The 30-year-old righty had recently gone on the injured list. He was 1-1 with a 3.00 ERA in 14 games this season.Green has long been one of New York’s top relievers. He has a 3.17 ERA, 11 saves and 494 strikeouts in 383 2/3 innings for the Yankees since 2016.Also, the Yankees put outfielder Joey Gallo and catcher Kyle Higashioka on the COVID-19 IL on Sunday. Manager Aaron Boone said neither player had tested positive but both are showing symptoms of the coronavirus.Ace Gerrit Cole (4-0, 2.89 ERA) was set to start at Yankee Stadium in the series opener against Baltimore.REMEMBER ME?Rockies right-hander Chad Kuhl returns to Pittsburgh to face his former team to open a three-game series at PNC Park.The 29-year-old Kuhl was a ninth-round pick of the Pirates in 2013. He spent his first five seasons with Pittsburgh, going 25-30 in 100 games.Kuhl signed with Colorado as a free agent in the offseason and is off to a nice start with his new team. He’s 3-2 with a 3.86 ERA in seven outings.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports