RENTON, Wash. (AP) — For the past decade in Seattle, nearly every team drill and every team activity had No. 3 and No. 54 at the front of the line leading the way.That hasn’t been the case this offseason and that point was emphasized yet again Monday when the Seahawks moved into the next phase of offseason workouts. The Seahawks are no longer the team led by Russell Wilson and Bobby Wagner, creating a decidedly new vibe to Seattle’s offseason program.“There is a vibe about this group. Every year the team takes on kind of a new makeup and it becomes from the personalities of the players in the leadership,” Seattle coach Pete Carroll said. “Leadership has shifted a little bit. That’s obvious. And so it feels like just as it is. It’s a new season, it’s a new team and here we go. It’s fun to watch it take shape and see the guys step into the roles.”Wilson and Wagner were always the two constants to nearly every phase of the Seahawks evolution since both were drafted by Seattle in 2012. Whether it was an offseason workout or a training camp practice, the two were almost always there and always leading the way. ADVERTISEMENTBut Wilson is now in Denver, the result of his offseason blockbuster trade that signaled a new direction for Seattle. And Wagner is in Los Angles with the Super Bowl champion Rams, the result of a salary cap move to save the Seahawks cap space.NFLAP source: Commanders procure Va. land for possible stadiumTitans agree to deal with tight end OkonkwoFamiliarity important for Herbert as Chargers OTAs beginStafford, Rams easing back to work after Super Bowl winThe moves left Seattle with a roster that has no players remaining from its Super Bowl championship team in 2013 and voids looking to be filled by those who remain. In the case of linebacker Jordyn Brooks, he’ll be taking over the defensive play call duties that Wagner previously had. “It just means I’ve got to handle my business and make sure that I’m doing everything right at all times,” Brooks said. “You can go down the list of great Seahawks that has played here, great leaders of the past teams. I take a little bit of pride in that, so I just want to do the best job that I can for our team.”While Brooks is the obvious choice to move into Wagner’s role on defense, the quarterback question in Seattle remains, and will remain, the No. 1 question until a decision is made, which will likely come at some point during the summer. It’s clear from Carroll’s comments this offseason that Geno Smith seems to have the lead in the competition with Drew Lock to be Wilson’s successor because of his experience playing in Seattle’s system. “(Lock) is right with us. Geno really has the package nailed, so I have that to gauge him on,” Carroll said. “He’s hanging with (Geno) throughout all of this and we’re not holding anything back.”GOODWIN SIGNSSeattle signed WR Marquise Goodwin on Monday, adding the speedy veteran to the roster. Goodwin had 20 receptions and one touchdown last season for Chicago. The Seahawks got an up close look at Goodwin for three seasons when he played for San Francisco from 2017-19. Goodwin’s best season came in 2017 when he had 56 receptions for 962 yards and two touchdowns with the 49ers. “He’s extraordinarily fast. He’s a gifted athlete. He came right out here day one and he still shows that he can fly. He’s a real disciplined route runner, and he’s also a guy who’s played all the spots,” Carroll said. “So I’m thinking that he will add something with what he brings athletically but also his background and his makeup and his versatility.”___More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/hub/nfl and https://apnews.com/hub/pro-32 and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL