MLBNEW YORK (AP) — Robinson Canó was cut Monday by the New York Mets with nearly $45 million remaining on his contract, ending an ill-fated marriage and perhaps signaling the end of his decorated major league career.The slumping Canó was designated for assignment in a move announced about an hour before teams were required to trim their active rosters from 28 players to 26. Relegated to a part-time role this season, Canó was a casualty of the crunch as the first-place Mets chose to keep younger, more versatile bench players instead. The 39-year-old Canó, who sat out last season while serving his second suspension for performance-enhancing drugs, is batting .195 (8 for 41) with one home run, three RBIs and a paltry .501 OPS in 43 plate appearances.NEW YORK (AP) — Mets manager Buck Showalter was suspended for Monday’s series opener against the Atlanta Braves after Major League Baseball determined New York reliever Yoan López intentionally threw at Philadelphia slugger Kyle Schwarber the previous night. ADVERTISEMENTLópez, optioned to Triple-A Syracuse following Sunday night’s victory, received a three-game ban that starts whenever he returns to the active big league roster. If he appeals, the penalty would be delayed until the process is completed.SportsAyton, Booker lead top-seeded Suns past Mavericks 121-114Herro scores 25, Heat take Game 1 over 76ers 106-92AP source: WNBA to honor Griner with decal on teams' floorCards' Hopkins suspended 6 games for violating PED policyMichael Hill, baseball’s Senior Vice President for On-Field Operations, announced the discipline about 20 minutes before the first pitch of New York’s game against World Series champion Atlanta at Citi Field — the initial meeting this season between the NL East rivals.NFLPHOENIX (AP) — Arizona Cardinals three-time All-Pro receiver DeAndre Hopkins has been suspended without pay for six games for violating the NFL’s policy on performance-enhancing substances.The league announced the suspension on Monday.It’s a stunning blow for the Cardinals, who finished with an 11-6 record last season but faded down the stretch when Hopkins was out of the lineup because of injuries. Now they’ll be without the 29-year-old for a big chunk of the upcoming season.Hopkins played in 10 games last season, catching 42 passes for 572 yards and eight touchdowns.CLEVELAND (AP) — The NFL handed former Cleveland Browns coach Hue Jackson another loss.The league announced Monday that it found “no evidence” the Browns purposely lost games or incentivized personnel to do so after Jackson alleged in February the team tried to lose during the 2016 and 2017 seasons.The league said Monday that a 60-day independent review determined “none of the allegations could be substantiated.”WNBANEW YORK (AP) — The WNBA will honor Phoenix Mercury center Brittney Griner with a floor decal, a person familiar with the decision told The Associated Press on Monday night.The person spoke on condition of anonymity because it hasn’t been announced publicly. ADVERTISEMENTThe All-Star center remains in Russia after being detained following her arrival at a Moscow airport on Feb. 17. Russian authorities said a search of her luggage revealed vape cartridges that allegedly contained oil derived from cannabis, which could carry a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison. She has a hearing set for May 19.The decal will feature Griner’s initials “BG” as well as her No. 42. All 12 teams will have the decal on their home courts starting with the season opener Friday night.— By AP Basketball Writer Doug Feinberg.AUTO RACINGDOVER, Del. (AP) — Chase Elliott snapped a 26-race winless streak when the 2020 NASCAR champion pulled away down the stretch to win the Cup Series race on Monday at Dover Motor Speedway.Elliott, who led the final 53 laps, won his 14th career Cup race and gave Hendrick Motorsports another victory on the mile concrete track. Elliott followed teammate Alex Bowman’s checkered flag a year ago, and a Hendrick driver won for the 22nd time at Dover.Hendrick swept the top four spots last season, but Monday’s race — with a finish delayed a day because of rain — had four different teams in the top four spots. Ricky Stenhouse Jr. was second and had his first top-five finish of the season for JTG Daugherty Racing. Ross Chastain, last week’s winner at Talladega, was third for Trackhouse Racing and Joe Gibbs Racing driver Christopher Bell finished fourth.SOCCERGREEN BAY, Wis. (AP) — Lambeau Field will host a soccer match for the first time in its storied history July 23 when Bayern Munich and Manchester City face off in an exhibition.The event is being billed as the USA Cup and is part of FC Bayern Munich’s summer tour, which also includes a July 20 match with D.C. United in Washington. Manchester City will face Club America on July 20 at NRG Stadium in Houston.This will mark the second time that Bayern Munich and Manchester City have faced each other in the United States.COLLEGE SOFTBALLHARRISONBURG, Va. (AP) — James Madison has canceled the remainder of its softball season as the school tries to cope with the suicide of one of its star players last week.Lauren Bernett, a sophomore catcher and cleanup hitter for the Dukes, died April 25 following a stellar weekend series against Drexel, for which she was named the Colonial Athletic Association’s player of the week. The Medical Examiner for the Western District of Virginia ruled the death a suicide.James Madison (21-21, 10-5 CAA) was one game behind Delaware for the top spot in the league before Bernett’s death.OLYMPICSMONACO (AP) — Under pressure to remove horse riding, modern pentathlon will test obstacle racing as a replacement in time for the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics.Modern pentathlon’s governing body, known by its French acronym UIPM, said Monday it received “over 60 proposals” and will test two types of obstacle racing starting after the World Cup finals in late June.The change has proved unpopular with athletes who, in one of the most traditional Olympics sports, have competed in five disciplines — fencing, swimming, equestrian jumping, pistol shooting and cross-country running. That format will be kept for the 2024 Paris Olympics.Removing the jumping portion was encouraged by the IOC after an incident of horse abuse at the Tokyo Olympics last year.COURTSNEW YORK (AP) — A lawyer for a Black NFL coach who sued the league alleging racist hiring practices told a judge Monday that arbitration is the wrong way to resolve the lawsuit in part because NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell would be the arbitrator and that would be “unconscionable.”Attorney Douglas Wigdor said the league was trying to force “behind closed doors” the claims of Brian Flores and two other Black coaches. None of the coaches was present for the Manhattan federal court hearing.It was the first hearing for a lawsuit Flores filed in February, when he claimed the league was “rife with racism” even as the NFL publicly condemns it.RICHMOND, Va. (AP) — A former University of Virginia lacrosse player is liable for fatally beating his girlfriend in 2010 and must pay $15 million in damages in a wrongful death lawsuit, a jury found Monday.George Huguely V is currently serving a 23-year prison sentence in the killing of Yeardley Love after being convicted of second-degree murder during a 2012 criminal trial. Huguely and Love both played lacrosse at UVA and had a two-year, on-again, off-again relationship before Yeardley was found beaten to death in her off-campus apartment on May 3, 2010.The lawsuit sought to hold Huguely civilly liable in Love’s death and asked the jury to award $29.5 million in compensatory damages, plus $1 million in punitive damages. On Monday, the jury awarded $7.5 million in compensatory damages to both Yeardley’s mother, Sharon Love, and her sister, Lexi Love Hodges. Punitive damages were not awarded.___More AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports