CHICAGO (AP) — Luis Urías lined three-run homer into the basket in left-center to break a seventh-inning tie, and the Milwaukee Brewers held on to beat the Chicago Cubs 7-6 in the opener of a day-night doubleheader on Monday.With the score 4-4, Mike Brosseau singled off Daniel Norris (0-3) with two outs and Kolten Wong walked. Urias Urías hit a 3-2 slider for a drive that barely made it over the ivy, his fifth homer this season.Milwaukee trailed 4-2 before Tyrone Taylor’s two-run homer in the sixth off Matt Swarmer ied the score on a warm afternoon with the wind blowing out.Jace Peterson lofted a long solo drive for Milwaukee, which won its second straight and dealt the Cubs a second straight loss.Swarmer and Milwaukee’s Ethan Small made their big league debuts. It marked the first time in Brewers history that both starters made their debuts and the first for the Cubs since 1944.Swarmer tossed six innings, allowing four runs — one earned — five hits and one walk in six innings. The 28-year-old right-hander struck out six.ADVERTISEMENTSmall was charged with two runs and four hits with four strikeouts in 2 2/3 innings. The lefty ran into control problems in the third when he walked four. P.J. Higgins and Rafael Ortega hit solo shots on consecutive pitches off Trevor Kelley in the fourth. Higgins’ homer was his first in the majors; Ortega finished with three hits.MLBGiants' Kapler pauses protest, stands for national anthemRoyals place Greinke on 15-day IL with strained forearmSchoop 3rd from Curaçao with 1,000 hits, Tigers top TwinsKody Clemens brought up by Tigers for possible MLB debutNico Hoerner had three RBIs on three hits, but the Cubs lost for the fourth time in five games. Miguel Sánchez (1-1) gave up one hits in two scoreless innings, and Josh Hader worked around a leadoff single by Hoerner in the ninth, striking out three for his 17th save in 17 chances.CUBS MOVESBesides recalling to Swarmer, the Cubs recalled OF Nelson Velázquez from Iowa and added RHP Anderson Espinoza from Double-A Tennessee as the 27th man for the doubleheader. Velázquez started in right and reached on an infield single in his first at-bat.TRAINER’S ROOMBrewers: Placed RHP Brandon Woodruff on the 15-day IL with a right high ankle sprain a move retroactive to Saturday. Woodruff a two-time All-Star, sustained the injury on Friday at St. Louis, when he pitched four innings in a loss. He’s 5-3 with a 4.74 ERA in nine games this season. The Brewers recalled RHP Peter Strzelecki from Triple-A Nashville. Cubs: Placed OF Jonathan Villar on the 10-day IL, retroactive to Friday, with a mouth injury incurred while training. ... Transferred RHP Ethan Roberts (right shoulder inflammation) to the 6-day IL.UP NEXTLHP Eric Lauer (5-1, 2.31) is scheduled to start for the Brewers on Tuesday and LHP Justin Steele (1-5, 5.40) for the Cubs.___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports