ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Shohei Ohtani hit a tying double in the ninth inning, Anthony Rendon followed with a game-ending single against his former team and the Los Angeles Angels beat the Washington Nationals 5-4 on Sunday.The Angels trailed 4-2 going into the ninth. Luis Rengifo drew a one-out walk and advanced to third on Taylor Ward’s hit. Mike Trout struck out, but Ohtani lined a two-run double off Tanner Rainey (0-1). The reigning AL MVP had been 1 for 11 during the series.Rendon then lined a single to center field and Ohtani slid to avoid Victor Robles’ throw home.Jack Mayfield also drove in two runs for the Angels. Jaime Barria (1-0) got the win.YANKEES 2, RANGERS 1, 1ST GAMERANGERS 4, YANKEES 2, 2ND GAMENEW YORK (AP) — Brad Miller snapped Michael King’s impressive scoreless streak with a pinch-hit, two-run homer in the seventh inning that lifted Texas over New York to salvage a doubleheader split.ADVERTISEMENTThe Yankees took the opener 2-1 on Gleyber Torres’ game-ending homer leading off the ninth. New York had three hits in the nightcap after getting just five in the early game.King (2-1) had pitched 14 1/3 consecutive innings without allowing a run before Miller smacked a fastball out to center field for a two-run lead. The right-hander hadn’t given up a run since an RBI double by Toronto’s George Springer on April 11.MLBWeekend Sports in BriefDiamondbacks start 3-game series against the MarlinsGiants open 3-game series against the RockiesWhite Sox take on the Guardians in first of 3-game seriesThe rare ineffective outing raised King’s ERA from 0.51 to 1.42.Eli White also homered as the Rangers won for the fifth time in six games.Giancarlo Stanton hit a two-run homer in the nightcap. New York lost for only the second time in 14 games.Texas starter Glenn Otto allowed two runs and two hits in five innings against his former team, which traded him for Joey Gallo last July. Garrett Richards (1-1) followed Otto in the sixth and got the win. Dennis Santana retired Aaron Judge with the bases loaded to end the seventh, and Joe Barlow pitched the ninth for his fourth save.Torres gave the Yankees their third walk-off victory of the season when he connected against John King (1-1) in the opener. Torres also had a game-ending single April 23 against Cleveland and has seven career walk-off hits, including two homers.Stanton hit a sacrifice fly in the sixth after Rangers starter Dane Dunning lost his no-hit bid on an infield single by Judge to open the inning.Kole Calhoun homered on Yankees starter Gerrit Cole’s final pitch, but the Rangers committed three errors as their four-game winning streak ended.Cole struck out 10 in 6 1/3 innings and threw a season-high 114 pitches. Clay Holmes (3-0) worked a scoreless ninth.PHILLIES 3, METS 2, 1ST GAMEMETS 6, PHILLIES 1, 2ND GAMEPHILADELPHIA (AP) — Pete Alonso homered twice, had three hits and drove in five runs to lead New York over Philadelphia in the second game for a doubleheader split.ADVERTISEMENTChris Bassitt (4-2) allowed one run in 5 2/3 innings to help the NL East leaders take two of three in a rain-shortened series. Jean Segura homered for the Phillies.In the opener, Bryce Harper homered again off Max Scherzer and Philadelphia became the first team to beat the new Mets ace, snapping a four-game skid.Alonso socked a two-run homer off Cristopher Sánchez (0-1) in the first inning of the nightcap and a three-run drive against Nick Nelson in the fifth.Harper had an RBI single in the opener as well. The reigning NL MVP also homered off Scherzer, his former Washington teammate, on May 1.Scherzer (4-1) gave up three runs and 10 hits in six innings. It was his first loss since last May 30, ending a string of 24 straight starts without a defeat. Kyle Gibson (3-1) permitted two runs in six innings. Corey Knebel pitched a perfect ninth for his fifth save.DODGERS 7, CUBS 1CHICAGO (AP) — Walker Buehler pitched seven sparkling innings in his 100th career start, and Los Angeles beat sliding Chicago for its sixth consecutive victory.Buehler (4-1) improved to 3-0 with a 0.43 ERA over his last three outings. The right-hander allowed one run and four hits, struck out six and walked two.Cody Bellinger had three hits for the Dodgers. Chicago, which lost for the 14th time in 17 games, managed just three runs in the three-game sweep by Los Angeles.The Cubs had to shuffle their rotation after Marcus Stroman was scratched, and then they lost Justin Steele to a left hand injury. Stroman was placed on the injured list without a designation, likely meaning the right-hander was shelved by a COVID-19-related issue.Steele (1-4) stepped in, making his first appearance since April 30. But he departed before the fifth inning, sidelined by left thumb soreness.ASTROS 5, TIGERS 0HOUSTON (AP) — Aledmys Díaz hit a grand slam and Jake Odorizzi combined with two relievers on a one-hitter as Houston finished a four-game sweep of Detroit for its seventh straight win. Díaz’s second home run of the season came in the third inning off reliever Drew Hutchison (0-3). Alex Bregman later added a solo homer off Joe Jimenez. The Astros completed a 7-0 homestand against Seattle and Detroit. Odorizzi (3-2) allowed one hit in five innings, striking out five. Cristian Javier struck out five in three innings and Hector Neris worked the ninth.WHITE SOX 3, RED SOX 2BOSTON (AP) — Dallas Keuchel halted his three-start losing streak with six solid innings, José Abreu hit a two-run double and Chicago topped Boston for its season-high sixth straight victory.Leury García added an RBI single for the White Sox (14-13), who moved over .500 for the first time since April 20 and completed a 5-0 road trip, including three wins at Fenway Park.Christian Vázquez had an RBI single for the Red Sox (10-19), who have lost a season-worst five straight and 14 of 18. Keuchel (2-3) allowed two runs and eight hits after posting a 9.90 ERA in his previous three starts.Rookie left-hander Bennett Sousa retired pinch-hitter Kevin Plawecki with a runner on second for his first major league save. Tanner Houck (2-3) gave up three runs over 2 2/3 innings in place of scheduled starter Michael Wacha, who went on the 15-day injured list after experiencing soreness on his left side after his last bullpen session.GUARDIANS 4, BLUE JAYS 3CLEVELAND (AP) — Franmil Reyes lumbered home on Óscar Mercado’s tiebreaking, two-out single in the eighth inning to lift Cleveland over Toronto.The Blue Jays took a 3-2 lead into the eighth, but Owen Miller’s one-out homer off Tim Mayza tied it. Adam Cimber (4-2) relieved with two outs. He allowed Reyes’ single and walked Andrés Giménez before Mercado came through.Bryan Shaw (1-0) pitched the eighth and Emmanuel Clase worked a perfect ninth for his sixth save.TWINS 4, ATHLETICS 3MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Jorge Polanco delivered another key hit and Minnesota’s bullpen combined for 6 2/3 shutout innings as the Twins sent Oakland to its ninth consecutive defeat.The Twins have swept three of their last five series and won 14 of 17 since beginning the season 4-8.Polanco, who homered in a 1-0 win Saturday night, hit two-run single in the third inning for a 4-3 lead.The Twins allowed only four runs over three games against the Athletics. The bullpen threw 11 2/3 scoreless innings during the series, much of it coming after starter Chris Paddack left in the third with right elbow inflammation.From there, Cody Stashak (3-0), Caleb Thielbar, Joe Smith, Tyler Duffey and Emilio Pagán combined for two-hit relief.Daulton Jefferies (1-5) allowed four earned runs and seven hits in five innings.MARINERS 2, RAYS 1, 10 INNINGSSEATTLE (AP) — Abraham Toro hit a tying homer in the ninth inning, Ty France singled home the winning run in the 10th and Seattle edged Tampa Bay to snap a six-game losing streak.Manuel Margot hit his third home run of the series for the Rays, who had won six straight overall and eight in a row on the road.Tampa Bay appeared headed to a four-game sweep before Toro connected off Andrew Kittredge with one out in the ninth. Kittredge was trying for a two-inning save.In the 10th, Rays manager Kevin Cash chose to intentionally walk Adam Frazier with one out. France singled off Matt Wisler (1-1), scoring automatic runner Jarred Kelenic.Paul Sewald (1-1) struck out pinch-hitter Yandy Diaz with two on to end the top of the 10th. Prized prospect George Kirby pitched six shutout innings in his major league debut for the Mariners, who had lost 10 of 11.PADRES 3, MARLINS 2SAN DIEGO (AP) — Pinch-hitter Jorge Alfaro connected for a three-run homer with two outs in the ninth inning against his former team to lift San Diego over Miami.Alfaro went deep to center field on the first pitch he saw from Cole Sulser (0-1), sending Petco Park into a frenzy and earning him a curtain call. He was purchased from the Marlins for cash in December. Until the ninth, it appeared the Padres were headed for a second straight shutout. But then Trent Grisham and CJ Abrams got on base ahead of Alfaro’s second homer. Jazz Chisholm homered for the Marlins, who have lost seven of eight. Padres starter Joe Musgrove pitched seven effective innings, and Robert Suarez (2-1) tossed two hitless innings for the win.GIANTS 4, CARDINALS 3SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Mike Yastrzemski hit a tiebreaking home run into McCovey Cove in the sixth inning, and San Francisco only struck out once while beating St. Louis.Giants closer Camilo Doval whiffed slugger Nolan Arenado with the potential tying run on second base for his fifth save.LaMonte Wade Jr. also homered in his third game off the injured list to help the Giants win their second straight after a five-game losing streak. They split the four-game series with the Cardinals.San Francisco hitters didn’t strike out until Joc Pederson fanned against Giovanny Gallegos for the last out in the eighth. No team has gone an entire game without striking out since Kansas City on Sept. 7, 2017, against Minnesota, per MLB.com. The Giants last did it in 2008.Yastrzemski had a sacrifice fly in the second and later homered off Génesis Cabrera (1-1).Juan Yepez hit his first career home run for St. Louis and has hit safely in all five games he’s played in since being called up from the minors Tuesday. Dominic Leone (2-0) won despite allowing the tying run in the sixth. ROYALS 6, ORIOLES 4, 1ST GAMEORIOLES 4, ROYALS 2, 2ND GAMEBALTIMORE (AP) — Bruce Zimmermann threw six effective innings and Baltimore beat Kansas City to earn a doubleheader split.The Royals won the opener 6-4 when Michael A. Taylor hit a tiebreaking single in the ninth after a pair of two-out errors by the Orioles.In the second game, Zimmermann (2-1) allowed two runs and five hits with five strikeouts and no walks. The Orioles pounced early, scoring three runs in the first off Daniel Lynch (2-2). Keegan Akin pitched two scoreless innings for the Orioles. Dillon Tate got his fourth career save and first this season.Baltimore outfielder Austin Hays went 5 for 7 over the two games.In the opener, Taylor Clarke (1-0) pitched a scoreless eighth and Scott Barlow earned his second save by standing two runners. Kansas City manager Mike Matheny got his 700th win in the majors with the Royals and St. Louis.Jorge Lopez (3-2) took the loss.BRAVES 9, BREWERS 2ATLANTA (AP) — Adam Duvall and William Contreras homered to help Charlie Morton win for the first time in five starts as Atlanta cranked up its bats against Milwaukee.Matt Olson hit a two-run double during a four-run second inning. Duvall homered in the third off starter Aaron Ashby (0-3), and Contreras added a three-run drive in the fifth off Jandel Gustave.The 38-year-old Morton (2-3) allowed two hits in five scoreless innings. The Braves were winless over his previous four starts, a stretch that included a 7.85 ERA.The defending World Series champions won just their second series of the season in nine tries to improve to 14-16. The Brewers have lost two straight but still lead the NL Central with a 19-10 record. DIAMONDBACKS 4, ROCKIES 0PHOENIX (AP) — Zac Gallen pitched seven crisp innings, Jose Herrera hit a two-run double for his first big league RBIs and Arizona blanked Colorado.Ketel Marte had three hits to boost his batting average to .206 and the Diamondbacks took advantage of another shaky start by Germán Márquez (0-3) to win for the ninth time in 12 games. Gallen (2-0) allowed five hits and struck out seven. REDS 7, PIRATES 3CINCINNATI (AP) — Colin Moran hit a grand slam and a two-run homer against his former team, powering Cincinnati past Pittsburgh.Tyler Mahle pitched five solid innings and the Reds rallied from a 2-0 deficit in the sixth. Cincinnati took two of three against the Pirates to win a series for the first time this season, improving the majors’ worst record to 5-23.Moran’s bases-loaded drive off Heath Hembree in the sixth gave the Reds a 5-2 lead after Dillon Peters (3-1) walked three straight batters to force in a run. Moran hit his first two home runs this season and set a career high with six RBIs. Mahle allowed only one hit, a two-run homer by Michael Perez. Art Warren (1-1) struck out three in two scoreless innings.___ More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/mlb and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports