ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (AP) — Corey Kluber and Gerrit Cole dueled evenly for six impressive innings before the Tampa Bay Rays scored a pair of late runs to beat the Yankees 3-1 Saturday, ending New York’s four-game winning streak.Yandy Diaz had a tiebreaking infield single in the seventh, and Manuel Margot extended his hitting streak to 15 games with an RBI single in the eighth.Kluber allowed one run and three hits. Cole struck out 10, giving up one run and two hits.J.P. Feyereisen (4-0) got the win his 19th straight scoreless relief appearance. Colin Poche pitched the ninth for his second save in two tries. Anthony Rizzo hit a sacrifice fly for New York in the first. Lucas Luetge (1-2) got the loss.REDS 3, GIANTS 2CINCINNATI (AP) — Right fielder Aristides Aquino threw out pinch-runner Joey Bart at the plate to end the game, and Cincinnati held off behind Kyle Farmer’s early three-run homer.ADVERTISEMENTCincinnati extended its winning streak to a season-high four despite playing down a man following the suspension of outfielder Tommy Pham.The strong-armed Aristides saved this one, nailing Bart trying to score the tying run from second on Wilmer Flores’ two-out single in the ninth inning.Vladimir Gutierrez (1-6) picked up his first win of the season in his eighth start. Tony Santillan, Cincinnati’s fourth reliever, got four outs for his third save.MLBWhite Sox designate LHP Dallas Keuchel for assignmentKluber, Cole duel, Rays end Yankees' 4-game winning streakRamírez, Bieber help Guardians beat Tigers 8-1Farmer's power, Aristides' arm send Reds past Giants 3-2Major League Baseball suspended Pham on Saturday for three games — retroactive to Friday — and fined him for slapping the Giants’ Joc Pederson during an altercation in the outfield before Friday’s game.Evan Longoria homered for San Francisco. Alex Wood (3-4) allowed three runs in 5 2/3 innings.GUARDIANS 8, TIGERS 1DETROIT (AP) — José Ramírez homered and drove in five runs, leading Shane Bieber and the Guardians to the win.Ramírez hit a three-run triple in the seventh inning and a two-run shot in the ninth for his 12th homer. The three-time All-Star is batting .297 with a major league-best 48 RBIs in 42 games.Bieber (2-3) allowed one run and eight hits in a season-high eight innings. The 2020 AL Cy Young Award winner struck out five and walked none.Josh Naylor added two hits and two RBIs for Cleveland, which had dropped three in a row.Detroit wasted another effective start for Alex Faedo (1-2), who allowed two runs and five hits in a career-high six innings. The Tigers had won two in a row.MARLINS 4, BRAVES 1ATLANTA (AP) — Miami’s Sandy Alcantara matched his career high with 14 strikeouts, dominating Atlanta for the second time in a week.Alcantara (5-2) allowed four hits in eight innings while earning his third consecutive win. Cole Sulser finished the five-hitter for his second save.Miguel Rojas had three hits, including a homer off Darren O’Day in the sixth. Garrett Cooper’s two-run double off Collin McHugh in the seventh made it 4-1.Atlanta fell to 4-12 in day games, the worst record in the majors.Braves left-hander Tucker Davidson (1-2) permitted three hits and one run in five innings. RANGERS 11, ATHLETICS 4OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) — Marcus Semien hit a grand slam for his first home run after signing with Texas in the offseason.ADVERTISEMENTCorey Seager and Adolis García also homered for the Rangers, who collected 18 hits for the team’s highest total since Sept. 8, 2019. Taylor Hearn (3-3) pitched six innings of three-run ball.The Rangers matched their longest winning streak of the season with their fourth straight. Ramón Laureano hit his first home run for Oakland, a solo drive off Hearn. The A’s, who were managed by bench coach Brad Ausmus while Mark Kotsay attended his daughter’s graduation in San Diego, have lost 10 of 14.Oakland’s Zach Logue (2-4) allowed four runs and seven hits in 2 1/3 innings.NATIONALS 13, ROCKIES 7, GAME 1WASHINGTON (AP) — Victor Robles homered, singled twice and drove in a career-high six runs, leading Washington to the victory in the first game of a split doubleheader.Riley Adams homered and scored three times for the Nationals, who have won three straight for the first time this season. Erasmo Ramirez (1-0) pitched two innings for the win.Robles singled his first two times up. After Colorado rallied within 8-7 in the top of the fourth, he answered in the bottom half with his first homer of the season, a three-run drive.C.J. Cron hit his 13th homer for the Rockies, who have lost three straight and 14 of 18. Brendan Rodgers extended his hitting streak to 14 games with an infield single.ADVERTISEMENTColorado starter Austin Gomber (2-5) retired just four batters, allowing eight runs on seven hits and three walks.CARDINALS 8, BREWERS 3ST. LOUIS (AP) — Nolan Gorman hit his first major league homer for St. Louis, and Matthew Liberatore earned his first major league win.Liberatore (1-0) pitched around a couple of Gorman errors in five scoreless innings. He allowed two hits, struck out six and walked three.Gorman had four hits, drove in four runs and scored three times. Paul Goldschmidt had three hits, including a homer, and also drove in four runs while extending his hitting streak to 19 games.Victor Caratini hit a two-run homer for Milwaukee in the ninth. Keston Hiura also went deep.Brewers starter Adrian Houser (3-5) gave up a career-high eight runs, five earned, in four innings.RED SOX 5, ORIOLES 3, GAME 1BOSTON (AP) — Nathan Eovaldi pitched a seven-hitter for his first career complete game, and the Red Sox beat the Orioles in the opener of a day-night doubleheader.The Red Sox posted their eighth win in 10 games after blowing two six-run leads in a loss on Friday night. The matchup was tied at 3 before slumping Bobby Dalbec’s pinch-hit homer in the sixth inning against Keegan Akin (1-1).ADVERTISEMENTRafael Devers had four hits for Boston, and Kiké Hernández added a two-run single. Eovaldi (2-2) threw 108 pitches in his 211th major league start. Robinson Chirinos belted a two-run shot for Baltimore. The Orioles have lost three of four.ROYALS 7, TWINS 3MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Kansas City rookie Bobby Witt Jr. delivered three more doubles for his second straight three-hit game.A double shy of hitting for the cycle Friday, Witt doubled in his first two at-bats, both times driving home Andrew Benintendi. Witt added another double in the seventh inning.Hunter Dozier added three hits as the Royals won for just the second time in nine games. Brady Singer (2-0) allowed three runs in 5 2/3 innings.Minnesota has lost three of four. Luis Arraez and Carlos Correa each had three hits for the Twins, and Trevor Larnach homered.Minnesota starter Chris Archer (0-2) allowed a season-high seven hits and five runs — three earned — in four innings. ___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports