There have been dozens of shootings and other attacks in U.S. schools and colleges over the years, but until the massacre at Colorado’s Columbine High School in 1999, the number of dead tended to be in the single digits. Since then, the number of shootings that included schools and killed 10 or more people has mounted. The most recent two were both in Texas.Uvalde school shooting– Gunman kills at least 19 children at Texas elementary school– After Texas shooting, Conn. senator begs for gun compromise– A look at some of the deadliest US school shootings– Biden says 'we have to act' after Texas school shootingROBB ELEMENTARY SCHOOL, May 2022An 18-year-old gunman opened fire Tuesday at an elementary school in Uvalde, Texas, killing 19 children and two adults, officials said. The 18-year-old attacker was killed by law enforcement.SANTA FE HIGH SCHOOL, May 2018A 17-year-old opened fire at a Houston-area high school, killing 10 people, most of them students, authorities said. The suspect has been charged with murder. MARJORY STONEMAN DOUGLAS HIGH SCHOOL, February 2018An attack left 14 students and three staff members dead at the school in Parkland, Florida, and injured many others. The 20-year-old suspect was charged with murder.ADVERTISEMENTUMPQUA COMMUNITY COLLEGE, October 2015A man killed nine people at the school in Roseburg, Oregon, and wounded nine others, then killed himself.SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL, December 2012A 19-year-old man killed his mother at their home in Newtown, Connecticut, then went to the nearby Sandy Hook Elementary School and killed 20 first graders and six educators. He took his own life.VIRGINIA TECH, April 2007A 23-year-old student killed 32 people on the campus in Blacksburg, Virginia, in April 2007; more than two dozen others were wounded. The gunman then killed himself.RED LAKE HIGH SCHOOL, March 2005A 16-year-old student killed his grandfather and the man’s companion at their Minnesota home, then went to nearby Red Lake High School, where he killed five students, a teacher and a security guard before shooting himself.COLUMBINE HIGH SCHOOL, April 1999Two students killed 12 of their peers and one teacher at the school in Littleton, Colorado, and injured many others before killing themselves.