TORONTO (AP) — Auston Matthews had two goals and an assist and Jack Campbell made 23 saves in the second playoff shutout of his career as the Toronto Maple Leafs beat the two-time defending Stanley Cup champion Tampa Bay Lightning 5-0 Monday night in Game 1 of their first-round playoffs series.Mitch Marner had a goal and two assists. Jake Muzzin scored and David Kampf added a goal on a short-handed breakaway for Toronto, which killed off five Lightning power plays, including an early five-minute major.Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 28 shots for the Lightning.The second game of the best-of-seven series is Wednesday in Toronto.KINGS 4, OILERS 3EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Phillip Danault scored at 14:46 of the third period, leading Los Angeles past Edmonton in Game 1 of the teams’ first-round playoff series.Trevor Moore and Alex Iafallo each had a goal and assist for the Kings. Brandon Lemieux also scored.ADVERTISEMENTConnor McDavid and Kailier Yamamoto each had a goal and assist for Edmonton. Leon Draisaitl rounded out the scoring with a power-play goal.Kings goalie Jonathan Quick made 35 saves. Mike Smith stopped 31 of 35 shots for Edmonton.NHLDanault scores late, Kings beat Oilers 4-3 in series openerHurricanes host the Bruins to begin the NHL PlayoffsEdmonton and Los Angeles square off begin the NHL PlayoffsBlues visit the Wild to open the NHL PlayoffsGame 2 is Wednesday in Edmonton. The series shifts to Los Angeles for Game 3 on Friday.HURRICANES 5, BRUINS 1RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — Seth Jarvis and Nino Niederreiter scored second-period goals and Antti Raanta had 35 saves his his playoff debut as Carolina beat Boston in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.Jarvis and Niederreiter scored roughly two minutes apart in the second period to break a scoreless tie. Teuvo Teravainen and Vincent Trocheck added third-period goals. Andrei Svechnikov punctuated the win with an empty-net goal at 17:59,.Taylor Hall scored for Boston early in the third. Linus Ullmark finished with 20 saves for the Bruins, who have lost all four matchups with Carolina this year by a combined score of 21-2.Game 2 is Wednesday in Raleigh.BLUES 4, WILD 0ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) — David Perron had a hat trick and an assist to lead St. Louis past Minnesota in Game 1 of their first-round series, one year after he missed the playoffs with COVID-19.Ryan O’Reilly scored, Torey Krug added three assists and Ville Husso made 37 saves for the shutout in his postseason debut for the Blues.Marc-Andre Fleury stopped 27 shots for the Wild. He got the nod over All-Star Cam Talbot, who went 13-0-3 in his last 16 starts. Game 2 is in St. Paul on Wednesday night, before the series shifts south to St. Louis.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports