ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) — Adreian Payne, a former Michigan State basketball standout and NBA player, has died in a shooting. He was 31.The Orange County Sheriff’s Office said deputies responded to a shooting at 1:34 a.m. Monday when Payne was identified and taken to a hospital where he was pronounced dead. Lawrence Dority, 29, was present at the scene, according to the Sheriff’s Office. He was arrested on a first-degree murder warrant after homicide detectives interviewed him.Payne played in 107 NBA games, averaging four points and three rebounds, over four seasons with Atlanta, Minnesota and Orlando. The Hawks drafted him No. 15 overall in 2014, traded him to the Timberwolves, and he averaged 6.7 points and 5.1 rebounds as a potentially promising rookie. The Magic waived the 6-foot-10 forward in January, 2018, after he was part of an ESPN report that detailed sexual assault allegations against former basketball and football players at the school.ADVERTISEMENTPayne played professionally earlier this year for Juventus in Lithuania. He also played in Turkey, France, Greece and China.Payne, who is from Dayton, Ohio, started in 94 of 138 games over four seasons for Hall of Fame coach Tom Izzo at Michigan State. He averaged 16.4 points and 7.3 rebounds as a senior during the 2013-14 season.NBAMavs to visit Suns, 76ers to visit Heat in Game 5 showdownsNets' Seth Curry has arthroscopic surgery on left ankleSuns coach: NBA should consider families-only seats at gamesKings announce hiring of Mike Brown as new coachFormer college teammate Brandon Wood said he had kept in touch with Payne, speaking with him as recently as last month about his plans to start a non-fungible token.“He was looking to start an NFT tied to the Spartans,” Wood said in a telephone interview. “I’ll never forget the good times I had with him and Draymond (Green) when we were roommates. If you ever spent time around AP, you understood that he had a really big heart and he cared about people.”Michigan State great Magic Johnson remembered Payne with a post on social media. “Our prayers and thoughts are with his family and Spartan Nation! Adreian will be sorely missed,”  Johnson wrote on Twitter.While in college, Payne befriended 8-year-old, cancer-stricken Lacey Holsworth and spoke at her memorial ceremony in April, 2014.“I’ve had my moments when I’ve been mad at AP because he didn’t do something right,” Izzo said in a 2014 interview  with the Big Ten Network. “I’ve been happy with him, I’ve been proud of him, I’ve been disappointed. All the things that go on in coaching. But until the day I die, I’ll never forget those couple of scenes that I was privileged to be part of thanks to him.”___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports