Nonfiction 1. Endure by Cameron Hanes, narrated by the author, David Goggins, and Joe Rogan (Macmillan Audio)2. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)3. Finding Me by Viola Davis, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)4. The Office BFFs by Jenna Fischer and Angela Kinsey, narrated by the authors (HarperAudio)5. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)6. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, David Goggins, Adam Skolnick Lioncrest Publishing7. 12 Rules for Life by Jordan B. Peterson, narrated by the author (Random House Canada)8. Phil by Alan Shipnuck, narrated by the author (Simon & Schuster Audio)9. Mythos by Stephen Fry, narrated by Stephen Fry (Chronicle Books)10. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) Fiction1. In the Blood by Jack Carr, narrated by Ray Porter (Simon & Schuster Audio)2. Dead Against Her by Melinda Leigh, narrated by Christina Traister (Brilliance Audio)ADVERTISEMENT3. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)4. Where the Crawdads Sing by Delia Owens, narrated by Cassandra Campbell (Penguin Audio)5. Ruthless Rival by L.J. Shen, narrated by Stella Bloom and Joe Arden (Brilliance Audio)EntertainmentRay Liotta, 'Goodfellas' and 'Field of Dreams' star, diesQ&A: Baz Luhrmann on his tragic, razzle-dazzle 'Elvis'K-pop band BTS and Biden to meet to discuss Asian inclusionEllen DeGeneres ends daytime show with plea for compassion6. Then She Was Gone by Lisa Jewell, narrated by Helen Duff (Dreamscape Media, LLC)7. Defiance of the Fall 5 by TheFirstDefier and JF Brink, narrated by Pavi Proczko (Aethon Audio)8. The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo by Taylor Jenkins Reid, narrated by Alma Cuervo, Julia Whelan and Robin Miles (Simon & Schuster Audio)9. The Terminal List by Jack Carr, narrated by Ray Porter (Simon & Schuster Audio)10. Verity by Colleen Hoover, performed by Vanessa Johansson and Amy Landon (Audible Studios)