TORONTO (AP) — Dusty Baker became the 12th manager in major league history and the first Black man to reach 2,000 wins with the Houston Astros’ 4-0 victory over the Seattle Mariners on Tuesday night. Yordan Alvarez and Jose Altuve each hit a solo homer and rookie Jeremy Peña had two RBIs to help the Astros to their second consecutive victory. Ten of the 11 other managers who have accumulated at least 2,000 wins are in the Hall of Fame. Bruce Bochy (2,003), who isn’t yet eligible, is the only exception. The 72-year-old Baker’s career record is 2,000-1,745 and he’s the only manager in major league history to take five different teams to the postseason. Baker, one of two Black managers in the majors, said being the first to reach the milestone “means extra to the culture. It means extra to society. It means extra to my race, and it means extra hopefully for others to get an opportunity (so) I’m not the last.”ADVERTISEMENTCristian Javier (2-0) allowed two hits over 5 1/3 innings in his second start after opening the season in the Houston bullpen. Three relievers combined after Javier’s exit to shut out the Mariners. MLBZunino's homer helps Rays rally past A's 10-7 in 10 inningsDusty Baker first Black manager, 12th ever to reach 2K winsDodgers top Rodón, Giants 3-1 in rivalry series openerDusty Baker gets 2,000th win as Astros down Mariners 4-0Seattle’s J.P. Crawford went 0 for 4 with a strikeout to snap an 11-game hitting streak. Chris Flexen (1-4) got the loss. YANKEES 9, BLUE JAYS 1TORONTO (AP) — Aaron Judge homered and drove in three runs, Jameson Taillon allowed one run in six innings, and New York extended their winning streak to 11 games by beating Toronto.Giancarlo Stanton hit a two-run home run in the ninth, his fifth of the season. New York leads the MLB with 34 home runs this season, including 23 in the past 11 games.Judge’s homer was his ninth, tying teammate Anthony Rizzo for the big-league lead. New York’s winning streak also is the longest in the majors this season. Taillon (2-1) allowed five hits, walked none, and struck out four to win his second straight decision.Toronto snapped a streak of 32 games without consecutive losses, dating back to Sept. 24, 2021. The Blue Jays also lost a series for the first time this season.Blue Jays right-hander Alex Manoah retired 15 straight batters, striking out six. Adam Cimber (4-1) replaced Manoah in the sixth and ended up with the loss. TWINS 7, ORIOLES 2BALTIMORE (AP) — Ryan Jeffers hit a tiebreaking, three-run homer in the sixth inning and surging Minnesota defeated Baltimore for its fourth straight victory.The Twins have won 12 of 13 to move six games over .500 (15-9) and into first place in the AL Central, which does not have another team with a winning record. This game was tied at 2 before the Twins took control in the sixth. Gary Sanchez hit a one-out double off Joey Krehbiel (1-3), Trevor Larnich walked and Jeffers followed with a drive over the center-field wall. He has three home runs this season, all in his last seven games.ADVERTISEMENTMinnesota pulled away with a two-run ninth that featured an RBI double by Byron Buxton.Twins starter Joe Ryan gave up two runs in 4 2/3 innings. He was followed by Caleb Thielbar (1-0), the first of three Minnesota relievers.RAYS 10, ATHLETICS 7, 10 INNINGSOAKLAND, Calif. (AP) — Pinch-hitter Mike Zunino tied the game with a two-run homer in the ninth inning and Yandy Diaz hit a go-ahead double in Tampa Bay’s five-run 10th to lead the Rays over Oakland. Kevin Smith hit a grand slam in the first inning to stake the A’s to a 5-1 lead but Oakland didn’t score again until two runs in the 10th and lost its fifth straight game. Kirby Snead came on for the ninth protecting a two-run lead in search of his first career save. But he gave up a one-out single to Manuel Margot followed by Zunino’s game-tying homer.The Rays then won it in the 10th against Lou Trivino (0-2), who had a rough outing in his first game back after a two-week stint on the COVID-19 list. Andrew Kittredge (2-0) pitched a perfect ninth for the win.DODGERS 3, GIANTS 1LOS ANGELES (AP) — Chris Taylor had an early two-run single, Julio Urías pitched six scoreless innings of four-hit ball, and Los Angeles opened its annual rivalry series against San Francisco with a win. Hanser Alberto doubled and scored in the eighth inning for Los Angeles, which won for the third time in four games. Craig Kimbrel got his fifth save. Carlos Rodón (3-1) pitched six innings and gave up three hits and two earned runs, with three strikeouts and two walks.Urías (2-1) largely cruised through his start, but was pulled after just 65 pitches. He gave up four hits and had four strikeouts.METS 5, BRAVES 4, GAME 1NEW YORK (AP) — Pete Alonso had two RBI singles as the Mets pounced early against Charlie Morton, and New York’s bullpen closed out a five-hitter for a win over Atlanta. Morton (1-3) had 56 pitches through two innings but rebounded to cover 5 2/3 on 99 pitches, allowing five runs — four earned — on six hits. The 38-year-old right-hander lowered his ERA this season to 6.85.Matt Olson hit a three-run homer in the fifth against starter David Peterson (1-0), his third of the season, to pull Atlanta within 5-4. The drive came one pitch after Peterson made his first career error. Peterson stumbled during a three-run fifth but was otherwise sharp after being recalled Tuesday from Triple-A. The left-hander was charged with four runs — three earned — and four hits with six strikeouts and three walks. Edwin Díaz struck out two and worked around a single in the ninth for his fifth save.METS 3, BRAVES 0, GAME 2NEW YORK (AP) — Carlos Carrasco dodged trouble for eight innings, Pete Alonso homered against Kyle Wright on an off night for Atlanta’s breakout right-hander and New York Mets beat the Braves to complete a doubleheader sweep.Carrasco (2-1) stranded seven runners with some masterful work out of the stretch, keeping Atlanta off the board despite six hits and two walks. The 35-year-old threw 96 pitches and struck out five, bouncing back after allowing eight runs in his previous start against St. Louis.Seth Lugo closed out the shutout for his second save.Dominic Smith hit a two-run double against Wright (3-1) in the first, building off a four-hit game Sunday that may have preserved his spot when rosters shrunk by two this week. Alonso went the other way for a solo drive in the sixth, his fifth homer.Wright allowed season highs of three runs and nine hits while striking out a season-low three over seven innings. BREWERS 6, REDS 3MILWAUKEE (AP) — Brandon Woodruff struck out 12 to tie his career high, Willy Adames hit a three-run homer and Milwaukee Brewers beat Cincinnati. The NL Central-leading Brewers have won six of their last seven games. The 12 Ks from Woodruff (3-1) came over 5 2/3 innings, in which he gave up all three runs and no walks. It was the first time in franchise history that Brewers starters struck out 10 or more batters in three consecutive games. Brewers pitchers entered Tuesday with the second-most strikeouts (234) in the majors, behind the Mets. Aaron Ashby pitched 2 1/3 scoreless innings and Devin Williams earned his second save.The Reds have lost seven in a row and have the worst record in the majors at 3-20. The loss tied the Reds’ longest consecutive road-loss streak of 11 games set in 1945.Cincinnati was without first baseman Joey Votto, who showed symptoms of COVID-19 but hadn’t yet tested positive. The team still put him in the injured list. Cincinnati’s Tyler Mahle (1-4) lasted 3 1/3 innings, giving up four earned runs.RANGERS 6, PHILLIES 4PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Mitch Garver and Jonah Heim homered and Zach Reks snapped a tie game with a two-RBI double, leading Texas over Philadelphia. Garver and Heim went deep off Phillies starter Ranger Suarez (2-1) and the game was tied at 3 into the sixth inning. Heim singled and Nathaniel Lowe reached on third basemen Alec Bohm’s error. Reks broke the tie with a pinch-hit, two-RBI double off reliever Seranthony Dominguez, and Marcus Semien’s RBI single made it 6-3. Brock Burke (3-0) tossed 2 1/3 scoreless innings of relief for the win. Joe Barlow worked a scoreless ninth for his second save.The Phillies scored three off starter Jon Gray in the first. Gray pitched three innings, allowed three runs and struck out three in his first start since April 19. RED SOX 4, ANGELS 0BOSTON (AP) — Rafael Devers homered, Michael Wacha pitched into the sixth inning and Boston beat Los Angeles. J.D. Martinez added a solo homer in the eighth to help seal it for Boston, which held the Angels to three hits in its second shutout of the season. Noah Syndergaard (2-1) had a solid start for Los Angeles, throwing 100 pitches and holding the Red Sox to three runs and eight hits over seven innings. Wacha (3-0) allowed just three hits — singles by Shohei Ohtani, Mike Trout and Max Stassi. Jake Diekman and Ryan Brasier preserved the shutout until Hirokazu Sawamura took over in the ninth, striking out Ohtani to end it. ROYALS 7, CARDINALS 1KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) — Bobby Witt Jr. hit his first major league home run, Brad Keller pitched shutout ball into the seventh inning and Kansas City Royals beat St. Louis to end a four-game losing streak.Witt had two hits, two RBIs and scored twice. MJ Melendez got a hit in his big league debut and Edward Olivares had a career-high four of the Royals’ 15 hits.Keller (1-2) allowed four hits in 6 1/3 innings, walked three and struck out two. Witt extended his hitting streak to 11 games with his solo home run in the second inning off Dakota Hudson (2-2). DIAMONDBACKS 5, MARLINS 4MIAMI (AP) — Christian Walker had a home run, double and three RBIs, and Arizona held on to beat Miami. Arizona starter Humberto Castellanos completed his longest outing of the season, pitching 5 2/3 scoreless innings. Castellanos (2-1) allowed four hits and struck out four.Pavin Smith also homered and Ketel Marte drove in two runs for the Diamondbacks, who have won six of eight.The Marlins lost their second straight after a seven-game winning streak. For the second consecutive night, Miami rallied from a 5-0 deficit with four runs in the seventh inning.Keynan Middleton pitched a perfect eighth and Joe Mantiply closed it out for his second save.Rogers (1-4) gave up five runs, six hits, walked two and struck out four. The 2021 NL Rookie of the Year runner-up, Rogers has won only one decision since June, 10 2021.WHITE SOX 3, CUBS 1CHICAGO (AP) — Tim Anderson homered and José Abreu made two nice plays at first base, helping the Chicago White Sox beat the Chicago Cubs on a rainy, chilly night at Wrigley Field. Michael Kopech pitched four-plus scoreless innings, and Jake Burger had two hits for Chicago. Anderson is batting .359 (14 for 39) in his last 10 games.The Cubs went with a bullpen day after they placed left-hander Drew Smyly on the bereavement list. Scott Effross (0-1) got four outs in his first big league start, allowing two unearned runs and two hits.Reynaldo López (3-0), the first of five White Sox relievers, pitched a scoreless inning for the win. Liam Hendriks got three outs for his sixth save in seven chances.NATIONALS 10, ROCKIES 2DENVER (AP) — Erick Fedde pitched seven sharp innings, Josh Bell and Juan Soto homered, and Washington continued its high-scoring ways on the road by beating Colorado. Keibert Ruiz had three hits and three RBIs and Yadiel Hernández added three hits and two RBIs for the Nationals, who entered the game averaging a major-league high 6.4 runs on the road. Fedde (2-2) limited the Rockies to six hits and a run. C.J. Cron connected for his ninth homer of the season in the eighth inning off reliever Erasmo Ramírez for Colorado. Germán Márquez (0-2) allowed seven runs on 10 hits in five innings. ___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports