ATLANTA (AP) — Atlanta police say at least eight people have been arrested at the site of a planned $90 million public safety training center that opponents have been occupying for months in an attempt to prevent construction.Atlanta Police Department Assistant Chief Darin Schierbaum told reporters Tuesday that some opponents threw rocks and what he said was a Molotov cocktail at officers who swarmed the property. In a news release, police said the Molotov cocktail caused a small fire that had to be extinguished and that later, another lit Molotov cocktail was thrown towards officers.The property is owned by the city of Atlanta but is located in unincorporated DeKalb County just outside the city limits.Schierbaum said charges included criminal trespass and obstruction of law enforcement officers.Opponents of the training center have continued to protest the $90 million project, which would be built by the Atlanta Police Foundation, saying that cutting down so many trees would be environmentally damaging. They also oppose investing so much money in what they call “Cop City” in light of the Black Lives Matter movement’s opposition to racial injustice in law enforcement.ADVERTISEMENTSome people who call themselves “forest defenders” have been camping on the site since last year. Police say they have been sabotaging construction efforts and the protesters have claimed they have driven spikes into trees to make them hazardous to cut down.BusinessLivestreamed carnage: Tech's hard lessons from mass killingsMusk wars with Twitter over his buyout deal - on TwitterPowell: Fed to keep hiking rates until it controls inflationRetail sales rise 0.9% in April as consumers show resilienceSchierbaum said Tuesday’s heavy police presence at site, which included FBI and Georgia Bureau of Investigation agents, was accompanying contractors who were trucking in building materials. Schierbaum said the work was aimed at clearing unpermitted structures and making way for work preparing for site clearing and structures.“There have been a number of concerted efforts to stop the public safety training center by committing criminal acts,” Schierbaum said.Opponents claim protesters and onlookers were illegally pushed, shocked with stun guns and arrested during a protest march elsewhere in the city on Saturday.“APD is frustrated at the vocal and effective movement opposing its new police facility, so they’re doing anything they can to shut it down,” Marlon Kautz of the Atlanta Solidarity Fund told Atlanta station WSB-TV. “Atlanta, with its rich legacy of civil rights, is not a place where people should be brutally arrested for peacefully marching.”The 85-acre (35-hectare) property includes a former state prison farm.“We do know there are other people on the property now,” Schierbaum said. “We’re asking them to leave. It is illegal to be on the property. There is not public access here. So if those individuals would leave, there would be no arrests.”The Atlanta City Council voted in September to lease the land to the Atlanta Police Foundation. The training center would include a shooting range, classrooms, a mock village, an emergency vehicle driving course, stables for police horses, and a “burn building” for firefighters to practice putting out fires. The vote came after weeks of protest from people who oppose the complex.