LOS ANGELES (AP) — Angels rookie Reid Detmers pitched the majors’ second no-hitter this season, cruising after he benefitted from a borderline error call in the seventh inning as Los Angeles beat the Tampa Bay Rays 12-0 Tuesday night.The 22-year-old left hander threw a career-high 108 pitches in his 11th big-league start, striking out two and walking one. Detmers (2-1) completed the 12th no-hitter in franchise history when Yandy Diaz grounded out shortstop Andrew Velazquez to end the game.He got a crucial assist from the official scorer in the seventh.Brett Phillips reached with one out when first baseman Jared Walsh ranged to his right and bobbled Phillips’ grounder. The crowd of 39,313 at Angel Stadium cheered and Walsh clapped moments later when the videoboard showed the play was ruled an error.Mike Trout had his second multi-homer game of the season and drove in three for the Angels, who have won six of their last seven. His first homer came against Corey Kluber (1-2).ADVERTISEMENTASTROS 5, TWINS 0MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Justin Verlander missed out on his fourth no-hitter by five outs but still faced the minimum through eight innings, and Houston beat Minnesota for its eighth straight win.Twins third baseman Gio Urshela singled to right field with one out in the eighth to end Verlander’s bid. The 39-year-old right-hander, in his first season back from Tommy John surgery, finished the eighth by getting Royce Lewis to ground into a double play.MLBTuesday Sports in BriefDiamondbacks host the Marlins on home winning streakReds and Brewers meet, winner claims 3-game seriesAstros bring 8-game win streak into game against the TwinsVerlander struck out five and walked two on 89 pitches. He was vying to tie Sandy Koufax for second on the career no-hitter list. Nolan Ryan holds the record with seven. Jeremy Peña drove in the first two runs for the Astros. Alex Bregman also had two RBIs, including a double to left in the fifth that drove in Jose Altuve.Twins starter Joe Ryan (3-2) struggled to find the strike zone. The right-hander issued a walk in each of his five innings and allowed four runs. YANKEES 6, BLUE JAYS 5NEW YORK (AP) — Aaron Judge hit a mammoth three-run drive in the ninth inning for his first walk-off home run in the major leagues to give New York a comeback victory over Toronto.Giancarlo Stanton tied it with a modest three-run shot in the sixth, and the Yankees rallied for their 14th victory in 16 games after three Toronto ejections left the angry Blue Jays seeing red.George Springer launched a leadoff homer for Toronto, and Lourdes Gurriel Jr. hit a tiebreaking double in the eighth that helped the Blue Jays take a 5-3 lead.No. 9 batter Jose Trevino and DJ LeMahieu drew consecutive one-out walks in the ninth from Jordan Romano (1-2) before Judge sent a hanging 1-2 slider 450 feet into the second deck in left field. Wandy Peralta (1-0) pitched a hitless ninth for the win.RED SOX 9, BRAVES 4ATLANTA (AP) — Rafael Devers hit his first career grand slam and last-place Boston broke out for clean-shaven manager Alex Cora and ended a five-game skid.Devers’ 432-foot blast off Kyle Wright (3-2) hit the center-field scoreboard behind the Braves’ bullpen. Devers also had a double and a walk.ADVERTISEMENTChristian Vázquez had a run-scoring single and Jackie Bradley Jr. drew a bases-loaded walk before Devers’ slam gave Boston a 6-0 lead.Travis d’Arnaud hit a two-run homer off Garrett Whitlock, who allowed three runs on four hits and four walks in three innings. Tyler Danish (1-0) allowed one hit in two scoreless innings.METS 4, NATIONALS 2WASHINGTON (AP) — A rat scurried through the outfield grass just before James McCann’s sacrifice fly drove in the go-ahead score during a three-run sixth inning, and Carlos Carrasco nearly got to the seventh again, helping New York beat Washington.The episode brought to mind one from a year ago — May 8, 2021, to be exact — involving a Mets club on the way to a disappointing 77-85 finish: Francisco Lindor and Jeff McNeil got into an argument during a game after they combined to flub a grounder. Soon after, Mets players rushed into the tunnel near the dugout.Carrasco (3-1) gave up two runs in 6 2/3 innings. He began the day as the only pitcher in the majors who had gone more than seven innings in at least two starts. In the sixth, once Nationals starter Patrick Corbin had been replaced by new call-up Carl Edwards Jr. (0-1), New York broke through, showing why it is now 21-10. ADVERTISEMENTWHITE SOX 4, GUARDIANS 1CHICAGO (AP) — Gavin Sheets homered in his second straight game, Tim Anderson had three hits and 2 RBIs, and Chicago shook off the previous night’s big collapse by beating Cleveland.Lucas Giolito (2-1) went seven innings and gave up just the one run that came on Josh Naylor’s homer to win his second straight start. He allowed six hits, struck out five and walked one.The White Sox won their seventh of eight games, with the only blemish blowing a six-run lead in the ninth Monday night and losing in 11 innings. Cal Quantrill (1-2) went 6 1/3 innings, allowing four runs and 10 hits.ORIOLES 5, CARDINALS 3ST. LOUIS (AP) — Cedric Mullins and Tyler Nevin each homered and Kyle Bradish struck out 11 over seven strong innings, leading Baltimore over St. Louis.Harrison Bader hit an inside-the-park home run in the sixth — the first for St. Louis at the current Busch Stadium and first for the Cardinals at home since 1985. Bradish (1-1) pitched seven innings for his longest outing this season and his first career win. He gave up four hits, including the homer to Bader. Felix Bautista got the final out for his first career save.Nevin gave Baltimore a 3-0 lead when he hit a one-out home run into the left field bullpen in the fourth, leading St. Louis to pull rookie pitcher Packy Naughton (0-1). ADVERTISEMENTRANGERS 6, ROYALS 4ARLINGTON, Texas (AP) — Corey Seager snapped an 0-for-16 slump with two home runs, Martin Perez pitched 6 1/3 solid innings and Texas opened a nine-game homestand with a win over Kansas City. Perez (1-2) struck out six without a walk and was charged with four runs, but only one of those was earned. Joe Barlow worked a perfect ninth for his sixth save in as many opportunities. Texas had three consecutive singles off Brad Keller (1-3) after Seager’s two-out homer in the first, with Kole Calhoun’s two-run hit making it 3-0. BREWERS 5, REDS 4CINCINNATI (AP) — Josh Hader reached 500 career strikeouts, Luis Urías hit a tying home run and made a clutch catch, and Milwaukee stopped Cincinnati’s season-high, two-game winning streak.Jace Peterson broke a 1-1 tie in the sixth with the first of his two doubles for the NL Central-leading Brewers, who ended a three-game losing streak. Hader worked around a leadoff walk in a hitless ninth and became only the third pitcher with saves in his first 12 appearances of a season after Lee Smith in 1994 and José Mesa in 2005.Wandy Peralta (2-1) allowed one run and four hits in 5 2/3 innings with a season-high eight strikeouts and one walk. Hunter Greene (1-5) lost his fifth straight start since winning his major league debut at Atlanta on April 10. ADVERTISEMENTPADRES 5, CUBS 4SAN DIEGO (AP) — Manny Machado hit a go-ahead double in the sixth inning and San Diego held on to beat Chicago in a thriller, hours after finding out manager Bob Melvin will have prostate surgery. Melvin announced before the game that he’ll have surgery Wednesday. He said he doesn’t think he has cancer, “but they won’t know until they get in there.” Melvin, hired away from Oakland on Nov. 1, said he expects to miss at least a week’s worth of games. Bench coach Ryan Christenson will serve as interim manager. Closer Taylor Rogers allowed Ian Happ’s RBI single with two outs in the ninth and loaded the bases before pinch-hitter Frank Schwindel sent a long drive to left field that Jurickson Profar caught at the wall. It was Rogers’ 12th save in 13 chances. Steve Wilson (3-0) got the win and Robert Gsellman (0-1) took the loss. MARINERS 5, PHILLIES 4SEATTLE (AP) — Robbie Ray (3-3) pitched into the sixth inning and had 10 strikeouts, the most by a Seattle pitcher this season. He gave up two runs on two hits while walking two in 5 2/3 innings. Nick Castellanos, Rhys Hoskins and Jean Segura had solo homers for Philadelphia, which has lost six of eight. Phillies manager Joe Girardi was ejected in the second inning for arguing when the Mariners’ Adam Frazier was called safe after inadvertently knocking the ball out of first baseman Hoskins’ glove on a play that led to a Seattle run.Aaron Nola (1-4) lost his fourth straight decision, giving up four earned runs on nine hits.Paul Sewald allowed a run while getting four outs but held on for his first save.GIANTS 9, ROCKIES 2SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Alex Wood pitched into the sixth inning and didn’t allow an earned run, Brandon Belt had an RBI double in his return to the lineup and San Francisco won its ninth straight against Colorado.Curt Casali added three hits and two RBIs for San Francisco, which has won four straight since losing five in a row.Wood (3-2) allowed seven hits and struck out four in 5 1/3 innings.Antonio Senzatela (2-2) allowed five runs and seven hits in 3 2/3 innings.DODGERS 11, PIRATES 1PITTSBURGH (AP) — Justin Turner hit three of Los Angeles’ eight doubles and finished with four hits and four RBIs in an 11-1 victory over Pittsburgh. The Dodgers hadn’t hit eight doubles in a game since moving to Los Angeles from Brooklyn in 1958. The franchise record is nine.Tony Gonsolin (3-0) allowed one hit in five shutout innings and had five strikeouts while walking four. Edwin Rios had three hits and three RBIs while homering for the second straight game. Trea Turner and Gavin Lux contributed two hits each as the NL West-leading Dodgers had 15.Bryse Wilson (0-2) was hammered for six runs and eight hits in 2 2/3 innings, needing 70 pitches to get eight outs. He struck out four and walked one.TIGERS 6, ATHLETICS 0, GAME 1ATHLETICS 4, TIGERS 1, GAME 2DETROIT (AP) — Tarik Skubal led Detroit to a win in the opener of a unique doubleheader caused by Major League Baseball’s lockout. With Oakland as the visiting team in the second game, 25-year-old Adrian Martinez pitched 5 1/3 scoreless innings to win his major league debut. Detroit ended a 27-inning scoreless streak in the opener. Miguel Cabrera singled in the ninth inning of the second game, tying Wade Boggs for 30th with 3,010 hits.Skubal (2-2) allowed three hits in seven innings, struck out five and walked three. Jonathan Schoop homered and scored twice on a day he raised his batting average from .139 to .157.In the first game, Frankie Montas (2-3) allowed four runs, six hits and three walks in 6 1/3 innings.DIAMONDBACKS 9, MARLINS 3PHOENIX (AP) — Madison Bumgarner pitched effectively into the seventh inning in his first start since being ejected and Arizona made Torey Lovullo the winningest manager in franchise history.Bumgarner (2-1) gave up a two-run homer to Jose Soler in a shaky first inning, but allowed two hits the rest of the way after his strange ejection against Miami last week.Jordan Luplow hit a two-run homer off Jesus Luzardo (2-3) in the first inning. ___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports