Nonfiction 1. Finding Me by Viola Davis, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)2. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)3. This Will Not Pass by Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns, narrated by Dennis Boutsikaris (Simon & Schuster Audio)4. Killing the Killers by Bill O’Reilly and Martin Dugard, narrated by Robert Petkoff (Macmillan Audio)5. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)6. The War on the West by Douglas Murray, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)7. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) 8. The War of Art by Steven Pressfield, narrated by the author (Black Irish Entertainment LLC)9. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 10. River of Time by Naomi Judd and Marcia Wilkie, narrated by Naomi Judd and Carolyn Cook (Hachette Audio)ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. Ruthless Rival by L.J. Shen, narrated by Stella Bloom and Joe Arden (Brilliance Audio)2. My Evil Mother by Margaret Atwood, narrated by Hillary Huber (Amazon Original Stories)3. The Miranda Obsession by Jen Silverman, performed by Rachel Brosnahan, Josh Groban, John Benjamin Hickey, Morgan Spector, Harry Lloyd, Milo Ventimiglia and full cast (Audible Originals)EntertainmentThe Black Keys still raw, fast and loose on 'Dropout Boogie'Summer Preview: Daisy Edgar-Jones takes on 'Crawdads'For auction: Marilyn’s clothes, Thor's hammer, Cap’s shieldTom Brady to join Fox Sports when playing career ends4. 22 Seconds by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro, narrated by January LaVoy (Little, Brown & Company)5. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)6. Book Lovers by Emily Henry, narrated by Julia Whelan (Penguin Audio)7. One of Us Is Dead by Jeneva Rose, narrated by Andi Arndt, Hillary Huber, Elizabeth Evans, Brittany Pressley and Cassandra Campbell (Blackstone Publishing)8. Where the Crawdads Sing by Delia Owens, narrated by Cassandra Campbell (Penguin Audio)9. Impact Winter by Travis Beacham, performed by full cast (Audible Originals)10. The Golden Couple by Greer Hendricks and Sarah Pekkanen, narrated by Karissa Vacker and Marin Ireland (Macmillan Audio)