This image released by Clarkson Potter shows a recipe for Sesame Schnitzel, featured in the cookbook "Eitan Eats the World" by Eitan Bernath. (Mark Weinberg/Clarkson Potter via AP)This image released by Clarkson Potter shows a recipe for Sesame Schnitzel, featured in the cookbook "Eitan Eats the World" by Eitan Bernath. (Mark Weinberg/Clarkson Potter via AP)Israeli-Style Sesame Schnitzel with Herby Tomato Cucumber Salad(From Eitan Bernath’s “Eitan Eats the World.”)Serves: 4HERBY TOMATO CUCUMBER SALAD1 English cucumber, chopped2 plum tomatoes, seeded and chopped½ cup chopped red onion1 garlic clove, chopped2 tablespoons lemon juice1 tablespoon olive oil1 tablespoon chopped fresh dill1 tablespoon chopped fresh mint1 tablespoon chopped fresh flat-leaf parsleyKosher salt and freshly ground black pepperSESAME SCHNITZEL4 skinless, boneless chicken breasts3/4 cup all-purpose flour1 teaspoon kosher salt, plus more as needed½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper2 large eggs3/4 cup panko bread crumbs3/4 cup plain bread crumbs2 tablespoons white sesame seedsVegetable oil, for fryingGround sumac, for sprinklingWell-stirred tahini and lemon wedges, for servingDIRECTIONS— Make the Tomato Cucumber SaladIn a large bowl, combine all the ingredients, adding salt and pepper to taste. Set aside until ready to serve.ADVERTISEMENT— Make the Sesame SchnitzelPlace one of the chicken breasts into a large plastic bag. Pound with the flat side of a meat mallet or rolling pin to ¼ -inch thickness. Remove the flattened chicken breast from the bag, set aside, and repeat with the remaining breasts.Combine the flour, salt, and pepper in a wide bowl. In a separate wide bowl, lightly beat the eggs. In a third wide bowl, mix both the panko and plain bread crumbs, and the sesame seeds. Working with one chicken breast at a time, dredge it in flour so that it is lightly coated all over and tap off any excess. Dip the coated breast into the beaten eggs, letting the extra drip off, then carefully place it in the bowl with the bread crumbs and press until thoroughly coated on both sides. Set the chicken on a sheet pan and repeat with the remaining breasts.In a large cast-iron skillet or nonstick pan, heat ½-inch of vegetable oil to 350 degrees F over medium heat. Line a sheet pan with paper towels and set it nearby. Working in batches to not crowd the skillet, carefully place the chicken breasts in the skillet, dropping the chicken, one at a time, away from you to avoid any oil splatters, and fry until golden brown on both sides, 2 to 3 minutes per side. Transfer the cooked chicken to the lined sheet pan and repeat with the remaining chicken. Season to taste with salt and sumac.Place one schnitzel on each plate and add some of the salad on the side. Drizzle tahini over the top and serve with lemon wedges.___Reprinted with permission from “Eitan Eats the World.” (copyright) 2022 by Eitan Bernath. Published by Clarkson Potter/Publishers, an imprint of Penguin Random House.