BATON ROUGE, La. (AP) — A sophomore at Louisiana State University is the state’s first participant in a national leadership program created by the Faith & Politics Institute of Washington, D.C. Antavion “Tay” Moore of Ringgold will join nine other students from schools including Dartmouth College, the University of Southern California and Claflin University, as the second group of John Robert Lewis Scholars. The program is named for the late civil rights icon and longtime Georgia congressman. It aims to build a nationwide network of emerging leaders to create change through the nonviolent philosophy of the American civil rights movement. Moore said his great-grandparents instilled the principles of the civil rights movement in him. “Even though I didn’t physically experience it myself, I felt connected to that era,” he said.Moore is an Ogden Honors College student studying political science and music. While still in high school, he earned two associate degrees from Bossier Parish Community College. ADVERTISEMENTAs a John Robert Lewis Scholar, Moore will participate in the Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimage and make two trips to Washington to connect with representatives from national, state, and local governments, businesses and nonprofits engaged in social impact work. There also will be virtual sessions about racial, economic and social inequities, and each participant will have an oral history project.PoliticsBiden tells Delaware grads to step up, 'now it's your hour'As US mourns shootings, NRA in turmoil but influence remainsIn Georgia, 2 Black candidates to compete for Senate seatEx-Proud Boys leader to stay jailed until Capitol riot trial“Throughout my life, my parents and pastor have always stressed the importance of showing faith through authentic service to my community,” Moore said.He has served on the National 4-H Council Board of Trustees, National 4-H Young Alumni Advisory Committee and as LSU collegiate 4-H co-president. He is the music director of Full Gospel United Pentecostal Church in Baton Rouge.Moore hopes to use his experiences and education to pursue a career in public service in Louisiana.