LANSING, Mich. (AP) — A draft opinion that suggests the U.S. Supreme Court could be poised to overturn the landmark Roe v. Wade decision reverberated in political battleground Michigan, where a near-total abortion ban may take effect again after nearly 50 years and is unlikely to be changed by the Republican-led Legislature.There is increased attention in Michigan on the state courts, where Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer and Planned Parenthood — anticipating the ruling — filed lawsuits less than a month ago seeking to invalidate the dormant 1931 law that remains on the books. The governor wants the Michigan Supreme Court to declare a constitutional right to abortion by recognizing the rights to privacy and bodily integrity. She argues the law is invalid under the due process and equal protection clauses of the state constitution.ADVERTISEMENTThe development also put a focus on the November election, when the governor and legislators are up for reelection and voters may decide whether to enshrine abortion rights in the state constitution.2022 Midterm electionsLive updates | Ohio secretary race: Trump pick, 2020 denier2022 midterms: What to know about Ohio, Indiana primariesElection 2022: Voters to decide Ohio's heated Senate primaryDraft opinion jolts Michigan, where abortion ban is on books“Women are waking up this morning feeling hopeless; but we can’t go back. I’m more motivated than ever to keep fighting like hell to ensure abortion remains safe and accessible in Michigan,” Whitmer tweeted.The leaked draft opinion published Monday by Politico in effect states there is no constitutional right to abortion services and would allow individual states to more heavily regulate or outright ban the procedure. But it’s unclear if the draft represents the Supreme Court’s final word on the matter — opinions often change in ways big and small in the drafting process.Michigan’s pre-Roe law, which followed a similar 1846 law, makes it a felony to use an instrument or administer any substance with the intent to abort a fetus unless necessary to preserve the woman’s life. There are no exceptions in cases of rape and incest, and Whitmer has said Michigan would have “one of the most extreme laws in the country.”Republican legislators have blocked Democrats’ efforts to repeal the law. The state’s Democratic attorney general, Dana Nessel, and Democratic prosecutors in seven counties with abortion clinics in turn have pledged to not enforce it. The six other counties with clinics have Republican prosecutors.ADVERTISEMENTAll 10 Republican candidates vying to challenge Whitmer are anti-abortion. Many oppose it except to protect the woman’s life, aligning with Right to Life of Michigan’s position. At least two, businessman Kevin Rinke and State Police Capt. Michael Brown, favor additional exceptions such as for rape and incest.“If true, I believe the Supreme Court acted properly by letting the people of Michigan make their own decision,” Rinke tweeted. “As governor, I will ensure that Michigan is a state that respects the sanctity of life.”Another candidate, conservative former news host Tudor Dixon, issued a lengthy statement saying she is “pro-life” and telling women they do not have to “pick and choose” between having a baby.“Life is winning!” chiropractor Garrett Soldano tweeted.For abortion-rights supporters, the pending high court decision made clear the urgency of a ballot drive they announced in January in anticipation of the federal right to abortion being ended. The constitutional amendment would affirm the right to make pregnancy-related decisions without interference, including about abortion and other reproductive services such as birth control.The Reproductive Freedom for All committee, which began circulating petitions in March, needs to collect about 425,000 valid voter signatures by July 11 to make the November ballot. The measure would become law if voters approved it.In Michigan, 70% of voters in the 2020 presidential election said the Supreme Court should leave Roe v. Wade as is and 27% said it should overturn the decision, according to AP VoteCast. That was similar to opinions among voters nationwide.Few voters in Michigan, 12%, said abortion in general should be illegal in all cases. Many, 28%, said abortion should be illegal in most cases, but a majority — 59% — said abortion in general should be legal in all cases or most cases.“The unfortunate reality is that our fate is now in our own hands; the U.S. Supreme Court will not protect us,” said Nicole Wells Stallworth, executive director of Planned Parenthood Advocates of Michigan. “Our campaign to enshrine right to an abortion in the Michigan Constitution is essential, and we must remain vigilant and energized to see it through to the finish because the clock is ticking.”___Associated Press polling reporter Hannah Fingerhut contributed to this report.___The story has been updated to correct that a near-total abortion ban could take effect again after nearly 50 years.___Follow David Eggert at https://twitter.com/DavidEggert00