A look at what’s happening around the majors today:___AND FOR AN ENCOREReid Detmers has a chance to match Johnny Vander Meer’s feat of consecutive no-hitters when he starts for the Los Angeles Angels at the Texas Rangers.The 22-year-old left-hander pitched his gem in a 12-0 win over the Tampa Bay Rays on May 10 in just his 11th big league start.“Since the day after, I’ve treated it like the next start,” Detmers said Monday. “Just trying to push it off to the side as much as I can and just go about my business. I’m preparing just like any other start. It’s been kind of crazy, but I wouldn’t trade it for anything. It’s something special. It’s finally starting to sink in.”Detmers struck out two, walked one and threw a career-high 108 pitches.“I just look for bumps in self-confidence,” Angels manager Joe Maddon said.Vander Meer is the only pitcher to throw no-hitters in consecutive major league starts, for Cincinnati against the Boston Bees on June 11, 1938, and against the Brooklyn Dodgers four days later in the first night game at Ebbets Field.ADVERTISEMENTFENWAY FRIGHTThe Astros could be without Jake Odorizzi for some time after the right-hander injured his left leg and collapsed running to cover first base in the fifth inning Monday night against the Red Sox. He was taken off the Fenway Park field on a stretcher.MLBMonday Sports in BriefDodgers return to form with 5-4 win over Bumgarner, D-backsSanchez, Lewis lead Twins past Athletics 3-1Casali hits 2 HRs, Yaz adds go-ahead HR, Giants beat Rox 7-6Odorizzi, who entered the game with a 15 2/3 inning shutout streak, appeared to twist his left leg awkwardly on the delivery to Kiké Hernandez. When he turned to cover first base, he took a step and then sprawled out, face down, on the grass. The team said he had “left lower leg discomfort,” and manager Dusty Baker said Odorizzi would get an MRI. The pitcher was on crutches, in a boot and in good spirits after the game, Baker said. “He’s probably doing better than it looked like on the mound,” Baker said.LET’S PLAY TWOThe New York Mets play their fourth doubleheader of the season, hosting the St. Louis Cardinals after Monday’s opener of the four-game series was postponed by rain. It will be the first meeting of the teams since a bench-clearing scuffle last month in St. Louis. The Chicago White Sox play a doubleheader at Kansas City and the Los Angeles Dodgers host the Arizona Diamondbacks in another twinbill on a day 18 games are scheduled.New York (an NL-best 23-13) swept the Giants on April 19 and the Atlanta Braves on May 3, both at home, then split a twinbill in Philadelphia on May 8. It will be the first doubleheader this season for the Cardinals (19-15).Long man Trevor Williams (0-2, 5.73) is expected to make a spot start for the Mets in place of injured Tylor Megill, and right-hander Taijuan Walker (1-0, 3.00 ERA) also will start, with the order to be announced. Miles Mikolas (3-1, 1.49 ERA) and left Steven Matz (3-3, 6.40) start for St. Louis.WILD SIDEJoan Adon, a 23-year-old right-hander, is off to a wild start for the Washington Nationals. After making his major league debut last Oct. 3, Adon enters Tuesday’s start at the Miami Marlins tied for the major league lead in losses, going 1-6 with a 7.03 ERA. His 23 walks lead the major leagues. His 7.03 ERA would be the highest in the major leagues but he entered Tuesday with 32 innings, five innings shy of qualifying. ___More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports